<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act 4</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Act <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</span></h2>
			<p>Music in the ring. More disorder in the room than usual. All kinds of actors' costumes hanging on pegs and lying in the corners. On the table a bouquet of fiery-red roses, put there by some careless hand. At the entrance, near the arch, three bareback riders are smoking and chattering; they are all minor actors. All part their hair the same way; two wear small moustaches; the third one is clean-shaven with a face like a bull-dog.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Clean-shaven One</td>
						<td>Go on, Henry! Ten thousand francs! It's too much even for the Baron.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Second</td>
						<td>How much are roses now?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Shaven</td>
						<td>I don't know. In winter they are certainly more expensive, but still Henry talks nonsense. Ten thousand!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Second</td>
						<td>The Baron has his own hothouse. They don't cost him anything.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Henry</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Throwing away hit cigar, which has burned the tips of his fingers</i>: No, Grab, you're silly. There's a whole car-load full! One can smell the roses a mile away. They're to cover the entire arena.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Shaven</td>
						<td>Only the ring.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Henry</td>
						<td>It's all the same. In order to cover the ring, you must have thousands and thousands of roses. You'll see what it looks like, when they've covered everything like a carpet. He ordered them to make it like a carpet! Do you see, Grab?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Second</td>
						<td>What a Baron's craze! Isn't it time yet?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Henry</td>
						<td>No, we have time enough. I rather like it: a fiery-red tango on a fiery-red cover of winter roses!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Shaven</td>
						<td>Consuelo will be galloping on roses. And Bezano?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Second</td>
						<td>And Bezano on thorns. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smiles.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Shaven</td>
						<td>That youngster has no self-respect. I'd have refused.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Henry</td>
						<td>But it is his job. He's got to do it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs.</i> Talk to him about self-respect. He's as angry and proud as a little Satan.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Second</td>
						<td>No, you may say what you like, it's an excellent benefit performance. It's a joy to look at the crowd. They're so excited.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Henry</td>
						<td>Tss! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">All throw away their cigars and cigarettes, like school boys who are caught, and make way for <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</b>, who enters with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b>.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>What are you doing here, gentlemen? Your place is at the entrance.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Henry</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a respectful smile</i>: We are here just for a minute, Madame Zinida. We are going. What a successful evening! And what a glory for Papa Briquet!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Yes. Go, and please don't leave your places. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They go. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</b> pulls a drawer out of the desk, and puts in some papers. She is in her lion tamer's costume.</i> <b>He</b>, what were you doing near my lions? You frightened me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Why, Duchess, I merely wanted to hear what the beasts were saying about the benefit performance. They are pacing in their cages, and growling.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>The music makes them nervous. Sit down, <b>He</b>. An excellent evening, and I am so glad that Consuelo is leaving us. Have you heard about the Baron's roses.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Everybody is talking about them. The Hymeneal roses!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Here are some, too. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Pushes away the bouquet.</i> You find them everywhere. Yes, I am glad. She is superfluous here, and disturbs our work. It is a misfortune for a cast to have in it such a beautiful and such an ... accessible girl.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>But it is an honest marriage, Duchess, is it not?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>I don't care what it is.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Spiders, too need an improvement in their breed! Can't you imagine, Zinida, what charming little spiders this couple will create! They will have the face of their mother, Consuelo, and the stomach of their father, the Baron, and thus could be an ornament for any circus-ring.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>You are malicious to-day, <b>He</b>. You are morose.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>I laugh.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>You do, but without joy. Why are you without make-up?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>I am in the third act. I have time. And how does Bezano feel about this evening. Is he glad?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>I didn't talk to Bezano. You know what I think, my friend? You, too, are superfluous here. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Silence.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>How do you want me to take that, Zinida?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Just as I said. In fact, Consuelo sold herself for nothing. What is the Baron worth, with his poor millions? People say that you are clever, too clever perhaps; tell me then, for how much could one buy me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking as if he were pricing her</i>: Only for a crown.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>A baron's crown?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>No, a royal one.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>You are far from being stupid. And you guessed that Consuelo is not Mancini's daughter?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Startled</i>: What! And she knows it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Hardly. Why should she know it? Yes, she is a girl from Corsica whose parents are unknown. He preferred to use her for business rather than.... But according to the law, she is his daughter, Countess Veronica Mancini.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>It is nice, to have everything done according to law, isn't it, Zinida? But it is curious there is more blue blood in her than in this Mancini. One would say that it was she who found him on the street, and made him a count and her father. Count Mancini! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Yes, you are gloomy, <b>He</b>. I changed my mind, you'd better stay.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Will I not be superfluous?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>When she is gone, you will not. Oh! You don't know yet, how nice it is to be with us. What a rest for the body and mind. I understand you. I am clever, too. Like you, I brought with me from out there my inclination for chains, and for a long time I chained myself to whatever I could, in order to feel firm.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Bezano?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Bezano and others; there were many, there will be many more. My red lion, with whom I am desperately in love, is still more terrible than Bezano. But it is all nonsense; old habits, which we are sorry to let go, like old servants who steal things. Leave Consuelo alone. She has her own way.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Automobiles and diamonds?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>When did you see a beauty clad in simple cotton? If this one does not buy her, another will. They buy off everything that is beautiful. Yes, I know. For the first ten years she will be a sad beauty, who will attract the eyes of the poor man on the side-walk: afterward she will begin to paint a little around her eyes and smile, and then will take——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Her <i>chauffeur</i> or butler as a lover? You're not guessing badly, Zinida!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Am I not right? I don't want to intrude on your confidence, but to-day I am sorry for you, <b>He</b>. What can you do against Fate? Don't be offended, my friend, by the words of a woman. I like you; you are not beautiful, nor young, nor rich, and your place is——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>On the side-walk, from which one looks at the beauties. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs.</i> And if I don't want to?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>What does it matter, your "want" or "don't want"? I am sorry for you, my poor friend, but if you are a strong man, and I think you are, then there is only one way for you. To forget.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>You think that that's being strong? And you are saying this, you, Queen Zinida, who want to awaken the feeling of love, even in the heart of a lion? For one second of an illusory possession, you are ready to pay with your life, and still you advise me to forget! Give me your strong hand, my beautiful lady; see how much strength there is in this pressure, and don't pity me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</b>. The latter it reserved, and self-consciously imposing. He has a new suit, but the same cane, and the same noiseless smile of a satyr.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Whispering</i>: Will you stay?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Yes. I shan't go away.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>How are you, my dear? But you are dazzling, my dear! I swear you are marvellous! Your lion would be an ass, if he did not kiss your hand, as I do.... <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses her hand.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>May I congratulate you, Count?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Yes, merci. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b></i>: How are you, my dear?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Good evening, Count!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Zinida, the Count wants to pay immediately for the breach of contract with Consuelo ... the Countess's contract. Don't you remember, Mother, how much it is?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>I'll look it up, Papa.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Yes, please. Consuelo will not return here any more. We leave to-morrow.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</b> search among the papers. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> takes <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</b> roughly by the elbow, and draws him aside.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In a low voice</i>: How are your girls, Mancini?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>What girls? What is this, stupidity or blackmail? Look out, sir, be careful, the policeman is not far.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>You are much too severe, Mancini. I assumed, that since we are <i>tête-á-tête</i>....</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>But tell me, what kind of <i>tête-á-tête</i> is possible, between a clown and me? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs.</i> You are stupid, <b>He</b>. You should say what you want, and not ask questions!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Three thousand francs, Count.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Is that all? For Consuelo? All right. I'll tell the Baron.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>You took——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Don't, Mother, don't.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Count, you drew in advance, I have it written down, eighty francs and twenty centimes. Will you pay this money, too?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Certainly, certainly. You will get three thousand and one hundred. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing</i> Twenty centimes! I never thought I could be so accurate. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Seriously</i> Yes, my friends. My daughter Consuelo—the Countess—and the Baron, expressed their desire to bid farewell to the whole cast.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>The Baron, too?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Yes, Auguste, too. They want to do it during the intermission. Therefore, I ask you to gather here ... the more decent ones ... but please don't make it too crowded! <b>He</b>, will you, sir, be kind enough to run into the buffet and tell them to bring right away a basket of champagne, bottles and glasses—you understand?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Yes, Count.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Wait a minute, what's the hurry—what is this, a new costume? You are all burning like the devils in hell!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>You do me too much honour, Count, I am not a devil. I am merely a poor sinner who the devils are frying a little. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes out, bowing like a clown.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>A gifted chap, but too cunning.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>It's the Tango colour, in honour of your daughter, Count. He needs it for a new stunt, which he doesn't want to tell in advance. Don't you want to sit down, Count?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Auguste is waiting for me, but ... it's all right. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Takes a seat.</i> Nevertheless I am sorry to leave you, my friend. High society, certainly, prerogatives of the title, castles of exalted noblemen, but where could I find such freedom, and ... such simplicity.... And besides, these announcements, these burning posters, which take your breath in the morning, they had something which summoned, which encouraged.... <i>There</i>, my friends, I shall become old.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>But pleasures of a higher kind, Count. Why are you silent, Zinida?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>I'm listening.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>By the way, my dear, how do you like my suit? You have wonderful taste. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Spreads out his lace tie and lace cuffs.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>I like it. You look like a nobleman of the courts of long ago.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Yes? But don't you think it is too conspicuous? Who wears lace and satin now? This dirty democracy will soon make us dress ourselves in sack cloth. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a sigh</i> Auguste told me that this jabot was out of place.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>The Baron is too severe.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Yes, but it seems to me he is right. I am a little infected with your fancy. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> returns. Two waiters follow him, carrying a basket of champagne and glasses. They prepare everything on the table.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Ah! <i>merci</i>, <b>He</b>. But, please, none of this bourgeoise exploding of corks; be slower and more modest. Send the bill to Baron Regnard. Then, we will be here, Briquet. I must go.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looks at her watch</i>: Yes, the act is going to end soon.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Heavens! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Disappears in a hurry.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>The devil take him!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Pointing to the waiter</i>: Not so loud, Louis!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>No! The devil take him! And why couldn't you help me, Mother? You left me alone to talk to him. High Society! High pleasures! Swindler! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</b> laugh. The waiters smile.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To the waiters</i>: What are you laughing about? You can go. We will help ourselves. Whiskey and soda, Jean! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In a low and angry voice</i> Champagne! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</b>, in his clown's costume.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td>A whiskey and soda for me, too! At least I hear some laughter here. Those idiots have simply forgotten how to laugh. My sun was rising and setting and crawling all over the ring—— and not a smile! Look at my bottom, shines like a mirror! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turns around quickly.</i> Beg your pardon, Zinida. And you don't look badly to-night, <b>He</b>. Look out for your cheeks. I hate beauties.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>A benefit performance crowd!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking in a hand mirror, correcting his make-up</i>: In the orchestra there are some Barons and Egyptian mummies. I got a belly-ache from fright. I am an honest clown. I can't stand it when they look at me as if I had stolen a handkerchief. <b>He</b>, please give them a good many slaps to-night.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Be quiet, Jim. I shall avenge you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b>He</b> goes out.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>And how is Bezano?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Grumbling</i>: Bezano! A crazy success. But he is crazy, he will break his neck to-morrow. Why does he run such a risk? Or perhaps he has wings, like a god? Devil take it. It's disgusting to look at him. It's not work any more.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>You are right, Jim! It is not work any more. To your health, old comrade, Jackson.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td>To yours, Louis.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>It is not work any more, since these Barons came here! Do you hear? They are laughing. But I am indignant, I am indignant, Jim! What do they want here, these Barons? Let them steal hens in other hen roosts, and leave us in peace. Ah! Had I been Secretary of the Interior, I should have made an iron fence between us and those people.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td>I am very sorry myself for our dear little Consuelo. I don't know why, but it seems to me that we all look to-day more like swindlers than honest artists. Don't you think so, Zinida?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Everybody does what he wants. It's Consuelo's business and her father's.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>No, Mother, that's not true! Not everybody does what he wants, but it turns out this way ... devil knows why.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Thomas</b>, an athlete.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>Is this where we're going to have champagne?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>And you're glad already?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thomas</td>
						<td>There it is! Oh, oh, what a lot!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>The Count told me to come here. I met him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Angrily</i>: All right, if he said so, but there is no reason to enjoy it. Look out, Angelica, you will have a bad end. I see you through and through. How does she work, Thomas?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thomas</td>
						<td>Very well.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In a low voice</i>: How angry Papa Briquet is to-night.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tilly</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Polly</b>, and other actors, all in their costumes.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tilly</td>
						<td>Do you really want champagne?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Polly</td>
						<td>I don't want it at all. Do you, Tilly?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tilly</td>
						<td>And I don't want it. <b>He</b>, did you see how the Count walks? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Walks, imitating <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</b>. Laughter.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Polly</td>
						<td>Let me be the Baron. Take my arm. Look out, ass, you stepped on my beloved family tree!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>It'll soon be finished. Consuelo is galloping now. It is her waltz. What a success she is having!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">All listen to the waltz. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tilly</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Polly</b> are singing it softly.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>She is so beautiful! Are those her flowers?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They listen. Suddenly, a crash as if a broken wall were tumbling down: applause, shouting, screaming; much motion on the stage. The actors are pouring champagne. New ones come in, talking and laughing. When they notice the director and the champagne, they become quiet and modest.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Voices</td>
						<td>They're coming! What a success! I should say, since all the orchestra seats.... And what will it be when they see the Tango? Don't be envious, Alphonse.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Silence! Not so much noise, please! Zinida, look here, don't be so quiet! High society!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b>, on the arm of the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> who is stiff and erect. She is happy. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</b>, serious and happy. Behind them, riders, actors, actresses. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> has in his button-hole a fiery-red rose. All applaud and cry: "Bravo, bravo!"</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Friends ... my dears ... Father, I can't ... <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Throws herself into <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini's</b> arms, and hides her face on his shoulders. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</b> looks with a smile over her head at the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> smiles slightly, but remains earnest and motionless. A new burst of applause.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Enough, children! Enough!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Calm yourself, calm yourself, my child. How they all love you! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking a step forward</i> Ladies and gentlemen, Baron Regnard did me the honour yesterday, to ask for the hand of my daughter, the Countess Veronica, whom you knew under the name of Consuelo. Please take your glasses.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>No, I am still Consuelo, to-night, and I shall always be Consuelo! Zinida, dear! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Falls on the neck of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</b>. Fresh applause.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Stop it! Silence! Take your glasses. What are you standing here for? If you came, then take the glasses.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tilly</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Trembling</i>: They are frightened. You take yours first, Papa, and we will follow.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They take the glasses. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b> is near the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b>, holding the sleeve of his dress coat with her left hand. In her right hand, she has a glass of champagne, which spills over.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>You are spilling your wine, Consuelo.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Ah! It is nothing! I am frightened, too. Are you, Father?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Silly child. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">An awkward silence.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a step forward</i>: Countess! As the director of the circus, who was happy enough ... to witness ... many times ... your successes....</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>I do not <i>like</i> this, Papa Briquet! I am Consuelo. What do you want to do with me? I shall cry. I don't want this "Countess." Give me a kiss, Briquet!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Ah, Consuelo! Books have killed you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses her with tears. Laughter, applause. The clowns cluck like hens, bark, and express their emotions in many other ways. The motley crowd of clowns, which is ready for the pantomime, becomes more and more lively. The<b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> is motionless, there is a wide space around him; the people touch glasses with him in a hurry, and go off to one side. With <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b> they clink willingly and cheerfully. She kisses the women.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td>Silence! Consuelo, from to-day on, I extinguish my sun. Let the dark night come after you leave us. You were a nice comrade and worker, we all loved you and will love the traces of your little feet on the sand. Nothing remains to us!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>You are so good, so good, Jim. So good that there is no one better. And your sun is better than all the other suns. I laughed so much at it. Alfred, dear, why don't you come? I was looking for you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bezano</td>
						<td>My congratulations, Countess.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Alfred, I am Consuelo!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bezano</td>
						<td>When you are on horseback; but here—I congratulate you, Countess. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He passes, only slightly touching <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo's</b> glass. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b> still holds it. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</b> looks at the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> with a smile. The latter is motionless.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Nonsense, Bezano. You are making Consuelo unhappy. She is a good comrade.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>No, it's all right.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Angelica</td>
						<td>You'll dance the Tango with her to-night, so how is she a countess?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tilly</td>
						<td>May I clink glasses with you, Consuelo? You know Polly has died of grief already, and I am going to die. I have such a weak stomach.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughter; <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> shows slight displeasure. General motion.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Enough, enough! The intermission is over.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Already? It's so nice here.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>I shall prolong it. They can wait. Tell them, Thomas.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Auguste, the musicians of the orchestra, too, ask permission to congratulate you and Consuelo. Do you ...?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>Certainly, certainly.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter crowd of musicians. The conductor, an old Italian, lifts his glass solemnly and without looking at the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Conductor</td>
						<td>Consuelo! They call you Countess here, but for me you were and are <i>Consuelo</i>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Certainly!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Conductor</td>
						<td>Consuelo! My violins and bassoons, my trumpets and drums, all are drinking your health. Be happy, dear child, as you were happy here. And we shall conserve for ever in our hearts the fair memory of our light-winged fairy, who guided our bows so long. I have finished! Give my love to our beautiful Italy, Consuelo.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Applause, compliments. The musicians one after another clink glasses and go out into the corridor. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b> is almost crying.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Don't be so sensitive, my child, it is indecent. Had I known that you would respond this way to this comedy—Auguste, look how touched this little heart is!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>Calm yourself, Consuelo.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>It is all right. Ah, Father, listen!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The musicians are playing the Tango in the corridor. Exclamations.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>You see. It is for you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>They are so nice. My Tango! I want to dance. Who is going to dance with me? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looks around, seeking <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bezano</b>, who turns away sadly.</i> Who, then?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Voices</td>
						<td>Baron! Let the Baron dance! Baron!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>All right. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Takes <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo's</b> arm, and stands in the centre of a circle which is formed.</i> I do not know how to dance the Tango, but I shall hold tight. Dance, Consuelo. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He stands with legs spread, heavily and awkwardly, like an iron-moulded man, holding <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo's</b> arm firmly and seriously.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Applauding</i>: Bravo! Bravo! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b> makes a few restless movements, and pulls her arm away.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>No, I can't this way. How stupid! Let me go! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She goes to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</b> and embraces her, as if hiding herself. The music still plays. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> goes off quietly to the side. There is an unfriendly silence among the cast. They shrug their shoulders.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Alone</i>: Bravo! Bravo! It is charming, it is exquisite!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td>Not entirely, Count.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tilly</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Polly</b> imitate the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b> without moving from their places.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tilly</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shrieking</i>: Let me go!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Polly</td>
						<td>No, I'll not. Dance!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The music stops abruptly. General, too loud laughter; the clowns bark and roar. Papa <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</b> gesticulates, in order to re-establish silence. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> is apparently as indifferent as before.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Really these vagabonds are becoming too impertinent. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shrugging his shoulders</i> It smells of the stable. You cannot help it, Auguste!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>Don't be upset, Count.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Holding his glass, approaches the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b></i>: Baron. Will you permit me to make a toast?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>Make it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>To your dance! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Slight laughter in the crowd.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>I don't dance!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Then another one, Baron. Let us drink to those who know how to wait longer, until they get it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>I do not accept any toasts which I do not understand. Say it more simply.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Voice of a woman</i>: "Bravo, <b>He</b>!" <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Slight laughter.</i></p>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</b> says something hastily to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</b>; the latter spreads his arms in gesture of helplessness. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</b> takes <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> by the arm.</i>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td>Beat it, <b>He</b>! The Baron doesn't like jokes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>But I want to drink with the Baron. What can be simpler? Simpler? Baron, let us drink to the very small distance which will always remain 'twixt the cup and the lip! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Spills his wine, and laughs.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> turns his back on him, indifferently. The music plays in the ring. The bell rings.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Relieved</i>: There! To the ring, ladies and gentlemen, to the ring, to the ring!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The actresses run out. The crowd becomes smaller; laughter and voices.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Much excited, whispers to the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b></i>: "Auguste, Auguste——"</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</b></i>: Thank heaven they're beginning. Ah, Mother, I asked you ... but you want a scandal by all means, and you always——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Let me alone, Louis.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> approaches Consuelo, who is alone.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><b>He</b>, deary, how are you? I thought you didn't want even to come near me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In a low voice</i> Did you notice Bezano?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>I was waiting for my turn, Queen. It was so difficult to get through the crowd to approach you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Through the crowd? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a sad smile</i> I am quite alone. What do you want, Father?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>Child! Auguste....</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Pulling away her hand</i>: Let me alone! I'll soon be—— Come here, <b>He</b>. What did you say to him? They all laughed. I couldn't understand. What?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>I joked, Consuelo.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Please don't, <b>He</b>, don't make him angry; he is so terrible. Did you see how he pressed my arm? I wanted to scream. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With tears in her eyes</i> He hurt me!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>It's not too late yet. Refuse him.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>It is too late, <b>He</b>. Don't talk about it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Do you want it? I will take you away from here.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Where to? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs.</i> Ah, my dear little silly boy, where could you take me to. All right, be quiet. How pale you are! You too, love me? Don't <b>He</b>, please don't! Why do they all love me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>You are so beautiful!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>No, no. It's not true. They must not love me. I was still a little cheerful, but when they began to speak ... so nicely ... and about Italy ... and to bid farewell, as if I were dying, I thought I should begin to cry. Don't talk, don't talk, but drink to ... my happiness. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a sad smile</i> To my happiness, <b>He</b>. What are you doing?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>I am throwing away the glass from which you drank with the others. I shall give you another one. Wait a minute. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Goes to pour champagne. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b> walks about thoughtfully. Almost all are gone. Only the principal figures are left.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming to her</i>: But it is really becoming indecent, Veronica. Auguste is so nice, he is waiting for you, and you talk here with this clown. Some stupid secrets. They're looking at you—it is becoming noticeable. It is high time, Veronica, to get rid of these habits.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Loudly</i>: Let me alone, Father! I want to do so, and will do so. They are all my friends. Do you hear? Let me alone!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>Don't, Count. Please, Consuelo, talk to whomever you please and as much as you want. Would you like a cigar, Count? Dear Briquet, please order them to prolong the intermission a little more.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>With pleasure, Baron. The orchestra crowd can be a little angry. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Goes, and returns shortly. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> gives a glass to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b>.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Here is your glass. To your happiness, to your freedom, Consuelo!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>And where is yours? We must touch our glasses.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>You leave half.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Must I drink so much? <b>He</b>, deary, I shall become drunk. I still have to ride.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>No, you will not be drunk. Dear little girl, did you forget that I am your magician? Be quiet and drink. I charmed the wine. My witchery is in it. Drink, goddess.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lingeringly</i>: What kind eyes you have. But why are you so pale?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Because I love you. Look at my kind eyes and drink; give yourself up to my charms, goddess! You shall fall asleep, and wake again, as before. Do you remember? And you shall see your country, your sky....</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Bringing the glass to her lips</i>: I shall see all this; is that true?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Growing paler</i>: Yes! Awake, goddess, and remember the time when, covered with snow-white sea-foam, thou didst emerge from the sky blue waters. Remember heaven, and the low eastern wind, and the whisper of the foam at thy marble feet....</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Drinking</i>: There! Look! Just a half! Take it. But what is the matter with you? Are you laughing or crying?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>I am laughing and crying.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Pushing <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> away, slightly</i>: Enough, Countess, my patience is exhausted. If Auguste is good enough to allow it, then I, your Father—Your arm, Countess! Will you step aside, sir?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>I am tired.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>You are not too tired to chatter and drink wine with a clown, and when your duty calls you—Briquet! Tell them to ring the bell. It is time.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>I am tired, Father.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Count, it is cruel. Don't you see how pale she has become?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>What is the matter with you, dear little Consuelo?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Nothing.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>She simply needs a rest, Baron. She hasn't sat down yet ... and so much excitement.... Sit down here, dear child. Cover yourself and rest a little. Men are so cruel!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>I still have to work. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Closing her eyes.</i> And the roses, are they ready?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Ready, dear, ready. You will have such an extraordinary carpet. You will gallop as if on air. Rest.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Polly</td>
						<td>Do you want some moosic? We will play you a song; do you want it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smiling, eyes closed</i>: Yes, I do.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The clowns play a soft and naïve song: tilly-polly, tilly-polly. General silence. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> sits in the corner with his face turned away. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</b> watches him out of the corner of his eye, and drinks wine, lazily. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b>, in his usual pose, wide and heavily spread legs, looks at the pale face of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b>, with his bulging motionless eyes.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a sudden cry</i>: Ah! Pain!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>What is it, Consuelo?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>My child! Are you sick! Calm yourself.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Growing pale</i>: Wait a moment.... She was too much excited.... Consuelo!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Gets up, looking before her with wide-open eyes, as if she were listening to something within herself</i>: Ah! I feel pain. Here at the heart. Father, what is it? I am afraid. What is it? My feet too ... I can't stand.... <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Falls on divan, her eyes wide open.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Running about</i>: Bring a doctor! Heavens, it is terrible! Auguste, Baron.... It never happened to her. It is nerves, nerves.... Calm yourself, calm, child——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Bring a doctor! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Somebody runs for a doctor.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In a voice full of fear</i>: <b>He</b>, what is the matter with you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>It is death, Consuelo, my little Queen. I killed you. You are dying.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He cries, loudly and bitterly. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b> with a scream, closes her eyes, and becomes silent and quiet. All are in terrible agitation. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> is motionless, and sees only <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Furious</i>: You are lying, rascal! Damned clown! What did you give her? You poisoned her! Murderer! Bring a doctor!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>A doctor will not help. You are dying, my little Queen. Consuelo! Consuelo!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bezano</b> rushes in, cries: "<b epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet!</b>" becomes silent and looks with horror at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b>. Somebody else comes in. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</b> is making gestures for someone to close the door.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In a dull and distant voice</i>: You are joking, <b>He</b>? Don't frighten me. I am so frightened. Is that death? I don't want it. Ah, <b>He</b>, my darling <b>He</b>, tell me that you are joking, I am afraid, my dear, golden <b>He</b>!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> pushes away the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b>, with a commanding gesture, and stands in his place near <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b>. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> stands as before, seeing only <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Yes, I am joking. Don't you hear how I laugh, Consuelo? They all laugh at you here, my silly child. Don't laugh, Jim. She is tired, and wants to sleep. How can you laugh, Jim! Sleep my dear, sleep my heart, sleep my love.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Yes, I have no more pain. Why did you joke that way, and frighten me? Now I laugh at myself. You told me, didn't you, that I ... should ... live ... eternally?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>Yes, Consuelo! You shall live eternally. Sleep. Be calm. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lifts up his arms, as if straining with all his forces to lift her soul higher.</i> How easy it is now! How much light, how many lights are burning about you.... The light is blinding you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>Yes, light.... Is that the ring?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>No, it is the sea and the sun ... what a sun! Don't you feel that you are the foam, white sea-foam, and you are flying to the sun? You feel light, you have no body, you are flying higher, my love!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Consuelo</td>
						<td>I am flying. I am the sea-foam, and this is the sun, it shines ... so strong.... I feel well.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She dies. Silence. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> stays a moment with lifted arms, then takes a long look, lets his arms fall, and shakingly goes off to one side. He stands still for a moment, then sits down, drops hit head on his hands, and struggles lonesomely with the torpidity of coming death.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Slowly</i>: She has fallen asleep, Mother?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Dropping the dead hand</i>: I am afraid not.... Step aside, Louis. Baron, it is better for you to step aside. Baron! Do you hear me? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Weeps.</i> She is dead, Louis.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The clowns and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</b> are crying. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</b> is overwhelmed. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> are motionless, each in his place.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Drawing out a large prismatic clown's handkerchief to wipe away his tears</i>: Faded, like a flower. Sleep, little Consuelo! The only thing that remains of you is the trace of your little feet on the sand. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Cries.</i> Ah, what did you do, what did you do, <b>He</b>!... It would have been better if you had never come to us. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">There it music in the ring.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Gesticulating</i>: The music! Stop the music! They are crazy there. What a misfortune!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Someone runs off. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</b> approaches the crying <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bezano</b> and strokes his bowed, pomaded head. When he notices her, he catches her hand and presses it to his eyes. The <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</b> takes the rose from his button-hole, tears off the petals, and drops it, grinding it with his foot. A few pale faces peer through the door, the same masquerade crowd.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Over the head of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bezano</b></i>: Louis, we must call the police.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Awakening from his stupor, screams</i>: The police! Call the police! It's a murder! I am Count Mancini, I am Count Mancini! They will cut off your head, murderer, damned clown, thief! I myself will kill you, rascal! Ah, you! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> lifts his heavy head with difficulty.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td>They will cut off my head? And what more.... Your Excellency?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Baron</td>
						<td>Sir! Listen, sir! I am going for the police. Stop it, sir. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He suddenly takes a step forward, and looking <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> in the eyes, speaks in a hoarse voice, with a cough, holding one hand at his throat.</i> I am the witness. I saw. I am a witness. I saw how he put poison ... I——</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He leaves the room, suddenly, with the same straight, heavy steps. All move away from him, frightened. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">He</b> drops his head again. From time to time a tremor shakes his body.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Clasping his hands</i>: Then it is all true? Poisoned! What a vile man you are, <b>He</b>. Is this the way to play? Now wait for the last slap of the executioner! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Makes the gesture around his neck, of the guillotine. Tilly and Polly repeat the gesture.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Zinida</td>
						<td>Leave his soul alone, Jim. He was a man, and he loved. Happy Consuelo!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A shot is heard in the corridor. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Thomas</b>, frightened, runs in and points to his head.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thomas</td>
						<td>Baron ... Baron ... his head.... He shot himself?...</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Throwing his arms up</i>: God! What is it? The Baron? What a calamity for our circus.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mancini</td>
						<td>The Baron? The Baron? No. What are you standing here for? Ah!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Briquet</td>
						<td>Calm down, Count. Who would have believed it? Such a respectable ... gentleman!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lifting his head with difficulty; he sees only dimly with his dulled eyes</i>: What more? What happened?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Thomas</td>
						<td>The Baron shot himself. Honestly. Straight here! He's lying out yonder.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Thinking it over</i>: Baron? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughs.</i> Then the Baron burst?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jackson</td>
						<td>Stop it! It's shameless. A man died and you.... What's the matter with you, <b>He</b>?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stands up, lifted to his feet by the last gleam of consciousness and life, speaks strongly and indignantly</i>: You loved her so much, Baron? So much? My Consuelo? And you want to be ahead of me even <i>there</i>? No! I am coming. We shall prove then whose she is to be for ever....</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He catches at his throat, falls on his back. People run to him. General agitation.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
