<h2><a name="INTRODUCTION" id="INTRODUCTION"></a>INTRODUCTION</h2>

<p>L<small>EONID</small> A<small>NDREYEV</small> as a literary figure was born in the gloomy atmosphere
of depression of the 'nineties. He thus appeared upon the literary stage
at a period when the old and splendid generation of Turgenev and
Dostoevsky had already passed away and when Chekhov had begun to
demonstrate before the reader the gloom and colourlessness of Russia
life.</p>

<p>This was a period when the social forces of Russia were half destroyed
by the reaction under Alexander III, and when the young generation was
trying to rest and to get away from the strain of social hopes and
despair. This period, briefly speaking, was a period of melancholy, of
commonplace, every-day preoccupations, and of dull <i>terre à terre</i>
philosophy.</p>

<p>It must be borne in mind that literature was the only outlet for the
moral and intellectual forces of Russia. Political reaction, censorship,
complete absence of civil liberties, and the cult of popular ignorance
upon which Czardom based its power, all these made the written artistic
word almost the sole expression of Russian social longings and
idealistic expectations.</p>

<p>It is therefore only natural that Russian literature in its general
development is closely interwoven with the political and social
conditions of Russia at the given moment. The 'nineties were a period of
depression. After the assassination of Alexander II (1881) and the
subsequent tightening of the chain of reaction, combined with a general
<i>débâcle</i> in progressive and radical circles, the Russian intellectual
fell into a state of pessimism. His faith in an early liberation was
shattered, his hope of recovery was broken. Chekhov is the most
characteristic representative of that period; he himself called his
heroes "the dull-grey people."</p>

<p>Maxim Gorki and Leonid Andreyev appeared almost simultaneously at that
time. The former brought the message of a rebel spirit which forecast a
new moral upheaval, a new social protest; the latter appeared clad in
the gloom of his time, which he strangely combined with a spirit of
almost anarchistic revolt. From the point of view of historical
completeness Leonid Andreyev is more representative of the epoch,
demonstrating at once two contradictory elements of the Russia of the
'nineties: lack or even absence of faith interwoven with protest and
mutiny.</p>

<p>Andreyev is symbolic and romantic. Her Majesty Fate and His Excellency
Accident, these are the two dark, unknown, at times brutal forces which
dwelt ever before the mind's eye. His symbols are full of horror and at
times unbending atrocity. Beginning with his short stories, In Fog, The
Life of Basil of Thebes, through his dramas, The Life of Man, and
Anathema, until his last writings, he saw human beings in the form of
ghosts and ghosts in the form of human beings dominating every step,
every breath of life. Still his gruesome symbolism, despite his genius
for rendering his images in a clear-cut, almost crystalline manner, did
not appeal to many of his contemporaries because the dark shroud in
which Andreyev enveloped life was impenetrable and at times it was
impossible to discern in that gloom the few values which Andreyev still
found in life. Leo Tolstoy said once: "Leonid Andreyev tries to frighten
me, but I am not afraid."</p>

<p>Even in his splendid realistic dramas it is difficult for Andreyev to
rid himself of the habit of symbolizing and dimming the few rays of
light which try to filter through.</p>

<p>There was nevertheless a little corner in Andreyev's artistic heart
where there appeared some indefinite hope which never acquired a
specific artistic form, but which was alluded to many times in his
writings. In his short story, Thought, he makes fragmentary allusions to
his half-hope, half-idea: "If the lot of the Man be to become a God, his
throne will be the Book," says the hero.</p>

<p>But the red laugh of the Russo-Japanese war, the abortive revolution of
1905, the general ignorance and darkness of the masses, the strain of
the last war, the depreciation of human life as a value in itself,
brought Leonid Andreyev to the last step of the pessimistic ladder which
he was ever descending into the abyss of hopelessness. This state of
mind is best illustrated by his last dramatic work, <span class="smcap">He</span>, the One Who Gets
Slapped.</p>

<p>Here we see a man of high education, of great intellectual achievement,
who leaves life, willingly in appearance, but forcibly in fact. The
relations of man to man, of group to group, according to Andreyev are
such that the Man is forced to efface himself. Even Thought, or the
Book, could not help the Man to become a God. He becomes a clown. He
performs stunts, he gets slaps; the public laughs, being unaware that
this laughter is a mockery at itself, at its culture, at its thought, at
its achievement.</p>

<p>The characters of the play, as the reader will see, are depicted with a
bitter sarcasm and unfriendliness, for Andreyev seems to have lost his
last faith in the Man. The good, the innocent and clean heart is bound
to suffer and die. His Consuelo, Zinida, Bezano are only stray rays of
light out of place in the world and even in the world-circus which is
full of spiders, champagne, and human outcasts. Andreyev does not blame
these outcasts. On the contrary, he feels sympathy, if for anybody, for
just these clowns, jugglers, and bareback-riders; but life, this
strange combination of fate, accident, and cowardly slander, is
stronger, and they collapse under the burden of this combination.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span> is perhaps the best work of Andreyev, at any rate his best dramatic
work. It is more adapted to stage conditions than his previous plays and
is not overcrowded with symbolic ghosts. Furthermore, <span class="smcap">He</span> is a remarkable
summary of Andreyev's philosophy.</p>

<p class="r">G<small>REGORY</small> Z<small>ILBOORG</small></p>

<p>
<br />
<br />
</p>

<p class="cb">HE WHO GETS SLAPPED<a name="page_002" id="page_002"></a></p>

<p>
<br />
<br />
</p>

<table border="0" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="0" summary="">
<tr><td align="center">CAST OF CHARACTERS</td></tr>
<tr><td> </td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>—<i>a bareback rider in a circus</i>. <i>Billed as "The Bareback Tango Queen."</i></td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span>—<i>Consuelo's father</i>.</td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">He</span>—<i>a clown in Briquet's circus</i>. <i>Billed as "HE Who Gets Slapped."</i></td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span>—<i>Manager of the circus</i>.</td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span>—<i>a lion tamer, Briquet's wife</i>.</td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">Alfred Bezano</span>—<i>a bareback rider</i>.</td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">A Gentleman.</span></td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">Baron Regnard.</span></td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span>—<i>a clown</i>.</td></tr>
<tr valign="middle"><td align="left"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span><span style="vertical-align: -1.75em;"><span style="font-size:200%">}</span>—<i>musical clowns</i>.</span><br />
<span class="smcap">Polly</span></td></tr>
<tr><td align="left"><span class="smcap">Thomas</span>, <span class="smcap">Angelica</span>, <i>and other actors and actresses of Briquet's circus</i>.</td></tr>
<tr><td> </td></tr>
<tr><td><i>The action takes place in one of the large cities of France.</i><a name="page_003" id="page_003"></a></td></tr>

</table>

<p>
<br />
<br />
</p>

<p class="cb">HE WHO GETS SLAPPED</p>

<h2><a name="ACT_I" id="ACT_I"></a>ACT I</h2>

<p><i>A very large, rather dirty room, with whitewashed walls. To the left,
in a niche, is a window, the only outside window in the room, opening on
a court-yard. The light from it is so dim that even by day the
electricity has to be turned on.</i></p>

<p><i>At the very top of the centre-back wall is a row of small dusty
windows. They open on the circus hall. At night, when the performance is
going on, a bright light shines through. By day they are dark. In the
same wall is a large white door, reached by two stone steps, and nailed
fast.</i></p>

<p><i>On the right, almost in the corner, is a high, wide, arched doorway
which leads to the stables and the ring. By day it opens into pale
darkness, at night into pale light.</i></p>

<p><i>The room is used for many purposes. It is the office of Papa Briquet,
manager of the circus; here he keeps his little desk. It is the
cloak-room of some of the actors. It is also the room where the cast
gathers between calls, during rehearsals or performances. Again, it is a
check-room for used circus property, such as gilt<a name="page_004" id="page_004"></a> armchairs, scenery
for pantomimes, and other wares of the circus household. The walls are
covered with circus announcements and glaring posters.</i></p>

<p><i>The time is morning. In the circus hall a rehearsal is going on, and
preparations are being made for the evening performance. As the curtain
goes up, the cracking whip and the shouts of the riding-master are heard
from the ring. The stage is empty for a few seconds, then enter Tilly
and Polly, the musical clowns, practising a new march. Playing on tiny
pipes, they step from the dark doorway to the window. Their music is
agreeable to the ear, but small, mincing, artificially clown-like, like
their mincing steps; they wear jackets and resemble each other; same
smooth-shaven face, same height; Tilly, the younger, has a scarf around
his neck; both have their derbies on the backs of their heads. Tilly
glances through the window, then they turn about, still marching.</i></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>[<i>Interrupting the march</i>]: Stop, you're out again! Now, listen—[<i>He
stands close to Tilly and plays into his face. Tilly absent-mindedly
listens, scratching his nose.</i>] There! Come on now! [<i>They resume their
music and marching. As they reach the door they meet the manager and</i>
<span class="smcap">Mancini</span>; <i>the latter walks behind the manager, and is gnawing at the
knob of his goldmounted<a name="page_005" id="page_005"></a> cane</i>. <span class="smcap">Count Mancini</span> <i>is tall and slight. The
seams of his clothes are worn and he keeps his coat buttoned tight. He
assumes extremely graceful manners, takes affected poses, and has a
special fondness for toying with his cane, with aristocratic
stylishness. When he laughs, which happens often, his thin sharp face
takes on a marked resemblance to a satyr. The manager</i>, <span class="smcap">"Papa" Briquet</span>,
<i>is a stout quiet man of average height</i>. <i>His bearing is hesitant. The
clowns make room for the gentlemen. The manager looks questioningly at
the older man.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>[<i>With an affected accent</i>]: Our moosic for the pantomime! The March of
the Ants!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Ha! Yes!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The gentlemen walk in. The clowns resume their music</i>, <span class="smcap">Polly</span>
<i>marching on, then turning, the younger following.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>Papa Briquet, Jack is working very badly to-day.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>What's the matter with him?<a name="page_006" id="page_006"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>He has a sore throat. You'd better take a look at him.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>All right. Come on, Jack. Open your mouth! Wider—wider. [<i>Turns clown's
face to the light near the window and examines him closely and
seriously.</i>] Just smear it with iodine.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>I told him so. I said it was nothing! Oh! Come on. [<i>They go away
playing, marching, practising their funny mincing steps. The manager
sits down.</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>strikes a pose by the wall, smiling ironically.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>So. You give them medical treatment, too! Look out, Papa Briquet, you
have no licence.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Just a little advice. They're all so afraid for their lives.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>His throat is simply burnt with whiskey. These<a name="page_007" id="page_007"></a> two fellows get drunk
every night. I am amazed, Papa Briquet, to see you pay so little
attention to their morals. [<i>He laughs.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>You make me sick, Mancini.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Count Mancini is at your service!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>You make me sick, Count Mancini. You poke your nose into everything, you
disturb the artists in their work. Some day you'll get a thrashing, and
I warn you that I shan't interfere.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>As a man of superior associations and education I cannot be expected to
treat your actors as my equals! What more can you ask, Briquet? You see
that I do you the honour of speaking with you quite familiarly, quite
simply.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Ha! ha! ha! [<i>Slightly threatening</i>] Really!—<a name="page_008" id="page_008"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Never mind my joke. What if they did dare attack me—ever seen this,
Briquet? [<i>He draws a stiletto out of his cane and advances it
silently.</i>] Useful little thing. By the way, you have no idea of the
discovery I made yesterday in a suburb. Such a girl! [<i>Laughs.</i>] Oh,
well! all right, all right—I know you don't like that sort of sport.
But look here, you must give me a hundred francs!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Not a sou.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Then I'll take away Consuelo—that's all——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Your daily threat!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes, my threat! And you would do the same, if you were as shamefully
hard up as I am. Now look here, you know as well as I do that I have to
live up to my name somehow, keep up the family reputation. Just because
the tide of ill-fortune which struck my ancestors compelled me to make
my daughter, the<a name="page_009" id="page_009"></a> Countess Veronica, a bareback rider—to keep us from
starving—do you understand—you heartless idiot!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>You chase the girls too much! Some day you'll land in jail, Mancini!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>In jail? Oh, no! Why, I have to uphold our <i>name</i>, the splendour of my
family, [<i>laughs</i>] haven't I? The Mancinis are known all over Italy for
their love of girls—just girls! Is it my fault if I must pay such crazy
prices for what my ancestors got free of charge? You're nothing but an
ass, a <i>parvenu</i> ass. How can you understand Family Traditions? I don't
drink—I stopped playing cards after that accident—no, you need not
smile. Now if I give up the girls, what will be left of Mancini? Only a
coat of arms, that's all—— In the name of family traditions,
give me a hundred francs!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>I told you no, I won't.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>You know that I leave half of the salary for Consuelo<a name="page_010" id="page_010"></a>—but—perhaps you
think I do not love my child—my only daughter, all that remains to me
as a memory of her sainted mother—what cruelty! [<i>Pretends to cry,
wipes his eyes with a small and dirty lace handkerchief, embroidered
with a coronet.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Why don't you say, rather, that she is foolish enough to give you half
her salary. You make me sick——</p>

<p>[<i>Enter Zinida, the lion tamer; burningly beautiful, her self-confident,
commanding gestures at first glance give an impression of languor. She
is</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet's</span> <i>unmarried wife.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span>]: Good morning.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Madame Zinida! This barbarian, this brute may pierce me with his dagger,
but I cannot control the expression of my love! [<i>Kneels facetiously
before her</i>] Madame! Count Mancini has the honour of asking you to be
his wife....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span>]: Money?<a name="page_011" id="page_011"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Yes.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Don't give him any. [<i>Sits down wearily on a torn sofa, shuts her eyes.
<span class="smcap">Mancini</span> gets up and wipes his knees.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Duchess! Don't be cruel. I am no lion, no tiger, no savage beast which
you are accustomed to tame. I am merely a poor domestic animal, who
wants, miaow, miaow, a little green grass.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Without opening her eyes</i>]: Jim tells me you have a teacher for
Consuelo. What for?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>The solicitude of a father, duchess, the solicitude and the tireless
anxiety of a loving heart. The extreme misfortunes of our family, when I
was a child, have left some flaws in her education. Friends, the
daughter of Count Mancini, Countess Veronica, can barely read! Is that
admissible? And you, Briquet, heartless brute, you still ask why I need
money!<a name="page_012" id="page_012"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Artful!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>What are you teaching her?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Everything. A student had been giving her lessons, but I threw him out
yesterday. He had the nerve to fall in love with Consuelo and stood
there miaowing at the door like a cat. Everything, Briquet, that you
don't know—literature, mythology, orthography——</p>

<p>[<i>Two young actresses appear, with small fur coats thrown over their
light dresses. They are tired and sit down in the corner.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>I do not wish my daughter——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Artful!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>You are stupid, Mancini. What do you do it for? [<i>In a didactic tone</i>]
You are fearfully stupid, Mancini. Why does she need to learn? Since she
is here<a name="page_013" id="page_013"></a> she need never know anything about that life. Don't you
understand? What is geography? If I were the government I would forbid
artists to read books. Let them read the posters, that's enough.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>During</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet's</span> <i>speech, the two clowns and another actor
enter. They sit down wearily.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Right now, your Consuelo is an excellent artist, but just as soon as you
teach her mythology, and she begins to read, she'll become a nuisance,
she'll be corrupted, and then she'll go and poison herself. I know those
books, I've read 'em myself. All they teach is corruption, and how to
kill oneself.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">First Actress</span></p>

<p>I love the novels that come out in the newspaper.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>That shows what a foolish girl you are. You'll be done for in no time.
Believe me, my friends, we must forget entirely what is happening out
there. How can we understand all that goes on there?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>You are an enemy of enlightenment, you are an obscurantist, Briquet.<a name="page_014" id="page_014"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>And you are stupid. You are from out there. What has it taught you?
[<i>The actors laugh.</i>] If you'd been born in a circus as I was, you'd
know something. Enlightenment is plain nonsense—nothing else. Ask
Zinida. She knows everything they teach out there—geography,
mythology—— Does it make her any happier? You tell them, dear.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Leave me alone, Louis.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Angrily</i>]: Oh! Go to the devil! When I listen to your asinine
philosophy, I'd like to skin you for more than a paltry hundred
francs—for two hundred—for a thousand. Great God! What an ass of a
manager! Yes, right before every one of them I want to say that you are
a stingy old skinflint—that you pay starvation wages. I'll make you
give Consuelo a raise of a hundred francs. Listen, all you honest
vagabonds, tell me—who is it draws the crowd that fills the circus
every night? You? a couple of musical donkeys? Tigers, lions? Nobody
cares for those hungry cats!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Leave the tigers alone.<a name="page_015" id="page_015"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Beg your pardon, Zinida. I did not mean to hurt your feelings—honestly.
I really marvel at your furious audacity—at your grace—you are a
heroine—I kiss your tiny hands. But what do they understand about
heroism? [<i>An orchestra softly plays the Tango in the circus. He
continues with enthusiasm.</i>] Hear! hear! Now tell me, honest vagabonds,
who but Consuelo and Bezano draws the crowds! That Tango on
horseback—it is—it is—— Oh, the devil! Even his fatuousness
the Pope could not withstand its lure.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>True! It's a great trick—wasn't the idea Bezano's?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Idea! Idea! The lad's in love, like a cat—that's the idea. What's the
good of an idea without a woman! You wouldn't dance very far with your
idea alone, eh, Papa Briquet?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>We have a contract.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Such base formalities.<a name="page_016" id="page_016"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Give him ten francs and let him go.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Ten! Never! <i>Fifteen!</i> Don't be stubborn, Papa. For the traditions of my
house—twenty. I swear—on my honour—I can't do with less. [<span class="smcap">Briquet</span>
<i>hands him twenty francs. Nonchalantly</i>] <i>Merci.</i> Thanks.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Why don't you take it from your baron?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Raising his eyebrows haughtily, quite indignant</i>]: From the Baron?
Woman! who do you think I am that I should be beholden to a stranger?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>You're plotting something artful. I know you very little, but I guess
you're an awful scoundrel.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughs</i>]: Such an insult from such beautiful lips.</p>

<p>[<i>Enter an "artist," apparently an athlete.</i>]<a name="page_017" id="page_017"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Athlete</span></p>

<p>Papa Briquet, there's a gentleman from beyond the grave asking for you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Actress</span></p>

<p>A ghost?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Athlete</span></p>

<p>No. He seems alive. Did you ever see a drunken ghost?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>If he's drunk, tell him I'm out, Thomas. Does he want to see me or the
Count?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Athlete</span></p>

<p>No, you. Maybe he's not drunk, but just a ghost.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Draws himself together, puffs up</i>]: A society man?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Athlete</span></p>

<p>Yes. I'll tell him to come in.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>One hears the whip cracking in the ring. The Tango<a name="page_018" id="page_018"></a> sounds very
low and distant—then comes nearer—louder. Silence.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Touching</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida's</span> <i>arm</i>]: Tired?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Drawing back a little</i>]: No.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>Your red lion is nervous to-day, Zinida!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>You shouldn't tease him.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>I played a melody from Traviata for him. And he sang with me. Wouldn't
that be a good trick to stage, Papa Briquet?</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<span class="smcap">Thomas</span> <i>brings in the gentleman, points out the manager, and goes
heavily away. The gentleman is not young, and he is ugly, but his
rather strange face is bold and lively. He wears an expensive
overcoat, with a fur collar, and holds his hat and gloves in his
hand.</i>]</p></div>

<p><a name="page_019" id="page_019"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Bowing and smiling</i>]: Have I the pleasure of addressing the manager?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Yes. Won't you sit down, please? Tilly, bring a chair.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Oh! Don't trouble. [<i>Looks around.</i>] These are your artists? Very
glad——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Straightening and bowing slightly</i>]: Count Mancini.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Surprised</i>]: Count?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Indignantly</i>]: Yes, Count. And whom have I the honour of——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I don't quite know myself—yet. As a rule you<a name="page_020" id="page_020"></a> choose your own names,
don't you? I have not chosen yet. Later you might advise me about it. I
have an idea already, but I am afraid it sounds too much like
literature—you know.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Literature?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Yes! Too sophisticated. [<i>They all look surprised.</i>] I presume these two
gentlemen are clowns? I am so glad. May I shake hands with them?
[<i>Stands up and shakes hands with clowns, who make silly faces.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Excuse me—but what can I do for you?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>With the same pleasant, confident smile</i>]: Oh. You do something for
me? No. I want to do something for you, Papa Briquet.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p><i>Papa</i> Briquet? But you don't look like——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Reassuringly</i>]: It's all right. I shall become "like." These two
gentlemen just made remarkable<a name="page_021" id="page_021"></a> faces. Would you like to see me imitate
them? Look! [<i>He makes the same silly faces as the clowns.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Yes! [<i>Involuntarily</i>] You are not drunk, sir?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>No. I don't drink as a rule. Do I look drunk?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>A little.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>No—I don't drink. It is a peculiarity of my talent.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Familiarly</i>]: Where did you work before? Juggler?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>No. But I am glad you feel in me a comrade, Papa Briquet. Unfortunately
I am not a juggler, and have worked nowhere—I am—just so.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>But you look like a society man.<a name="page_022" id="page_022"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Oh, you flatter me, Count. I am just so.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Well, what do you want? You see I am obliged to tell you that everything
is taken.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>That's immaterial. I want to be a clown, if you will allow me. [<i>Some of
the actors smile</i>, <span class="smcap">Briquet</span> <i>begins to grow angry</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>But what can you do? You're asking too much. What can you do?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Why! Nothing! Isn't that funny! I can't do a thing.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>No, it's not funny. Any scoundrel knows that much.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Rather helpless, but still smiling and looking around</i>]: We can invent
something——<a name="page_023" id="page_023"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Ironically</i>]: From literature?</p>

<p>[<i>The clown Jackson enters slowly without being noticed by the others.
He stands behind the gentlemen.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Yes, one can find something literary, too. A nice little speech for
instance on, let's say, a religious topic. Something like a debate among
the clowns.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>A debate! The devil! This is no academy.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Sadly</i>]: I am very sorry. Something else then. Perhaps a joke about
the creation of the world and its rulers?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>What about the police? No, no—nothing like that!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>[<i>Coming forward</i>]: The rulers of the world? You don't like them? I
don't either. Shake.<a name="page_024" id="page_024"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Introducing</i>]: Our chief clown, the famous Jackson.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Enthusiastically</i>]: Great heavens—you! Allow me to shake hands with
you heartily! You, with your genius, you have given me so much joy!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>I'm glad indeed!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Shrugs his shoulders; to Jackson</i>]: He wants to be a clown! Look him
over, Jim.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Jackson makes a motion at which the gentleman hurriedly removes
his coat and throws it on a chair. He is ready for the examination.
Jackson turns him round, looking him over critically.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Clown? Hm! Turn round then. Clown? Yes? Now smile. Wider—broader—do
you call that a smile? So—that's better. There is something, yes—but
for full developments—— [<i>Sadly</i>]: Probably you can't even turn a
somersault?<a name="page_025" id="page_025"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Sighs</i>]: No.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>How old are you?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Thirty-nine. Too late? [<i>Jackson moves away with a whistle. There is a
silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Softly</i>]: Take him.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Indignant</i>]: What the hell shall I do with him if he doesn't know a
thing? He's drunk!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Honestly I am not. Thank you for your support, Madame. Are you not the
famous Zinida, the lion tamer, whose regal beauty and audacity——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Yes. But I do not like flattery.<a name="page_026" id="page_026"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>It is not flattery.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>You are evidently not accustomed to good society, my dear. Flattery?
This gentleman expresses his admiration in sincere and beautiful
words—and you—you are not educated, Zinida. As for myself——</p>

<p>[<i>Enter <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> and <span class="smcap">Bezano</span> in circus costume.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>You here, Daddy?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes, my child, you are not tired? [<i>Kisses her on the forehead.</i>] My
daughter, sir, Countess Veronica. Known on the stage as Consuelo, The
Bareback Tango Queen. Did you ever see her?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I have enjoyed her work. It is marvellous!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes! Of course. Everyone admits it. And how do you like the name,
Consuelo? I took it from the novel of George Sand. It means
"Consolation."<a name="page_027" id="page_027"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>What a wonderful knowledge of books!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>A small thing. Despite your strange intention, I can see, sir, that you
are a gentleman. My peer! Let me explain to you, that only the strange
and fatal misfortunes of our ancient family—"<i>sic transit gloria
mundi</i>," sir.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>It's a bore, Daddy—— Where's my handkerchief, Alfred?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>Here it is.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Showing the handkerchief to the gentleman</i>]: Genuine Venetian. Do you
like it?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Again bowing</i>]: My eyes are dazzled, how beautiful! Papa Briquet, the
more I look around me the more I want to stay with you. [<i>Makes the face
of a simpleton.</i>] On the one hand a count, on the other——<a name="page_028" id="page_028"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>[<i>Nods approval</i>]: That's not bad. Look here, think a bit—find
something. Everyone here thinks for himself.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Silence. The gentleman stands with a finger on his forehead,
thinking.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Find something—find something ... Eureka!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>That means <i>found</i>. Come!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Eureka—— I shall be among you, he who gets slapped. [<i>General
laughter. Even</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span> <i>smiles</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[Looks at them smiling]: You see I made even you laugh—is that easy?
[<i>All grow serious. Polly sighs.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>No, it's not easy. Did you laugh, Polly?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>Sure, a lot. Did you?<a name="page_029" id="page_029"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>I did. [<i>Imitating an instrument, he plays with his lips a melody at
once sad and gay.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>"He Who Gets Slapped," that's not bad.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>It's not, is it? I rather like it myself. It suits my talent. And
comrades, I have even found a name—you'll call me "<span class="smcap">He</span>." Is that all
right?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>[<i>Thinking</i>]: "<span class="smcap">He</span>"—Not bad.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a singing, melodic voice</i>]: "<span class="smcap">He</span>" is so funny—"<span class="smcap">He</span>"—like a dog.
Daddy, are there such dogs?</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Jackson suddenly gives a circus slap to the gentleman. HE steps
back and grows pale.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>What!—[<i>General laughter covers his exclamation.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span> Who Gets Slapped. Or didn't you get it?<a name="page_030" id="page_030"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>[<i>Comically</i>]: He says he wants more—— [<i>The gentleman smiles, rubbing
his cheek.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>So sudden.—Without waiting.—How funny—you didn't hurt me, and yet my
cheek burns.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Again there is loud laughter. The clowns cackle like ducks, hens,
cocks; they bark.</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>says something to</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span>, <i>casts a
glance toward</i> <span class="smcap">Bezano</span>, <i>and goes out</i>. <span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>assumes a bored air
and looks at his watch</i>. <i>The two actresses go out.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Take him, Papa Briquet—he will push us.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Again looking at his watch</i>]: But bear in mind, that Papa Briquet is
as close as Harpagon. If you expect to get good money here you are
mistaken. [<i>HE laughs.</i>] A slap? What's a slap? Worth only small change,
a franc and a half a dozen. Better go back to society; you will make
more money there. Why for one slap, just a light tap, you might say, my
friend, Marquis Justi, was paid fifty thousand lire!<a name="page_031" id="page_031"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Shut up, Mancini. Will you take care of him, Jackson.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>I can.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>Do you like music? A Beethoven sonata played on a broom, for instance,
or Mozart on a bottle?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Alas! No. But I will be exceedingly grateful if you will teach me. A
clown! My childhood's dream. When all my school friends were thrilled by
Plutarch's heroes, or the light of science—I dreamed of clowns.
Beethoven on a broom, Mozart on bottles! Just what I have sought all my
life! Friends, I must have a costume!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>I see you don't know much! A costume [<i>putting his finger on his
forehead</i>] is a thing which calls for deep thought. Have you seen my Sun
here? [<i>Strikes his posterior.</i>] I looked for it two years.<a name="page_032" id="page_032"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Enthusiastically</i>]: I shall think!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>It is time for me to go. Consuelo, my child, you must get dressed. [<i>To
HE.</i>] We are lunching with Baron Regnard, a friend of mine, a banker.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>But I don't want to go, Daddy. Alfred says I must rehearse to-day.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Horrified, holding up his hands</i>]: Child, think of me, and what a
situation you put me in! I promised the Baron, the Baron expects us.
Why, it is impossible! Oh, I am in a cold sweat.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Alfred says——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Drily</i>]: She has to work. Are you rested? Then come on.<a name="page_033" id="page_033"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>But—the devil take me if I know what to make of it. Hey, Bezano,
bareback rider! Are you crazy? I gave you permission for Art's sake, to
exercise my daughter's talent—and you——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Go along, Papa, and don't be so silly. We've got to work, haven't we?
Have lunch along with your Baron. And Daddy, you forgot to take a clean
handkerchief again, and I washed two for you yesterday. Where did you
put them?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Ashamed, blushing</i>]: Why, my linen is washed by the laundress, and
you, Consuelo, are still playing with toys. It is stupid! You're a
chatter-box. You don't think. These gentlemen might imagine Heaven knows
what. How stupid. I'm off.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Do you want me to write him a little note?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Angrily</i>]: A little note? Your little notes would make a horse laugh!
Good-bye.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>He goes out toying angrily with his cane. The<a name="page_034" id="page_034"></a> clowns follow him
respectfully, playing a funeral march. HE and</i> <span class="smcap">Jackson</span> <i>laugh. The
actors disappear one by one.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: Do I really write so badly? And I love so to write. Did
you like my note, Alfred—or did you laugh, too?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Blushing</i>]: No, I did not. Come on, Consuelo.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>They go, and meet</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span>, <i>entering. Consuelo passes on.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Are you going back to work, <span class="smcap">Bezano</span>?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Politely</i>]: Yes. To-day is a very bad day. How are your lions, Zinida?
I think the weather affects them.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>From the ring</i>]: Alfred!<a name="page_035" id="page_035"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Yes. Some one is calling you. You'd better go. [<i>Alfred goes out. To</i>
<span class="smcap">Briquet</span>] Are you finished?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Right away.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Then good-bye till evening. Think about your costume, <span class="smcap">He</span>, and I shall
look for some idea, too. Be here at ten to-morrow. Don't be late, or
you'll get another slap. And I'll work with you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I shall not be late. [<i>He looks after</i> <span class="smcap">Jackson</span> <i>who goes out.</i>] Must be
a nice man. All the people about you are so nice, Papa Briquet. I
suppose that good-looking bareback rider is in love with Consuelo, isn't
he? [<i>Laughs.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>It's none of your business. For a newcomer you go poking your nose too
far. How much does he want, Papa?<a name="page_036" id="page_036"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Just a minute. See here <span class="smcap">He</span>. I don't want to make a contract with you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Just as you please. Do you know what? Don't let us talk about money. You
are an honest fellow, Briquet; you will see what my work is worth to
you, and then——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Pleased</i>]: Now that's very nice of you. Zinida, the man really doesn't
know anything.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Well, do as he suggests. Now we must write it down. Where's the book?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Here. [<i>To HE</i>.] I don't like to write [<i>gives book to</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span>], but we
have to put down the names of the actors, you know—it's police
regulations. Then if anyone kills himself, or——</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Again comes the sound of the Tango, and calls from the ring.</i>]</p></div>

<p><a name="page_037" id="page_037"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>What is your name?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Smiling</i>]: <span class="smcap">He.</span> I chose it, you know. Or don't you like it?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>We like it all right—but we have to have your real name. Have you a
passport?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Confused</i>]: A passport? No, I have none. Or, rather, yes. I have
something of the kind, but I had no idea the rules were strictly
enforced here. What do you need papers for?</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span> <i>look at each other</i>. <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>pushes the book
aside</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Then we can't take you. We cannot quarrel with the police, just on your
account.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>She is my wife. I hadn't told you. She's right. You might get hurt by a
horse, or hurt yourself—or<a name="page_038" id="page_038"></a> do something. We don't know you, you see. I
personally don't care, but out there, it's different, you see. For me a
corpse is just a corpse—and I don't ask anything about him. It's up to
God or the Devil. But they—they're too curious. Well, I suppose it's
necessary for order. I don't know—— Got a card?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Rubs his head, thinking</i>]: What shall I do? I have my card, but
[<i>smiles</i>] you understand that I don't want my name to be known.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Some story, hey?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, something like that. Why can't you imagine that I have no name?
Can't I lose it as I might lose my hat? Or let someone else take it by
mistake? When a stray dog comes to you, you don't ask his name—you
simply give him another. Let me be that dog. [<i>Laughing</i>] <span class="smcap">He</span>—the Dog!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Why don't you tell us your name, just the two of us. Nobody else need
know it. Unless you should break your neck——<a name="page_039" id="page_039"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Hesitates</i>]: Honestly? [<span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>shrugs her shoulders</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Where people are honest, their word is good. One sees you come from <i>out
there</i>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>All right. But please, don't be surprised. [<i>Gives</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>his card.
She looks at it, then hands it to</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span>, <i>then both look at HE</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>If it is true, sir, that you are really what is written here——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>For heaven's sake—for heaven's sake—this does not exist, but was lost
long ago; it is just a check for an old hat. I pray you to forget it, as
I have. I am <span class="smcap">He</span> Who Gets Slapped—nothing else. [<i>Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>I beg your pardon, sir, but I must ask you again, I must humbly ask
you—are you not drunk, sir? There is something in your
eye—something——<a name="page_040" id="page_040"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No, no. I am He, Who Gets Slapped. Since when do you speak to me like
this, Papa Briquet? You offend me.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>After all, it's his business, Briquet. [<i>She hides the card.</i>] Truly you
are a strange man. [<i>Smiles.</i>] And you have already noticed that Bezano
is in love with the horse-girl? And that I love my Briquet, did you
notice that, too?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Also smiling</i>]: Oh, yes. You adore him.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>I adore him. Now go with him, Briquet, show him the ring and the
stables—I have something to write.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, yes, please. I am so happy. At last you have taken me, haven't you?
It is true—you're not joking. The circus, the tan-bark, the ring in
which I shall run getting my slaps. Yes, yes, Briquet, let's go. Until I
feel the sawdust under my feet, I shall not believe it.<a name="page_041" id="page_041"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>All right then. [<i>Kisses</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span>.] Come on.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Just a minute—<span class="smcap">He</span>! Answer me a question. I have a man who takes care of
the cages, a plain fellow whom nobody knows. He just cleans the cages
you know; he walks in and out whenever he wants to, without even looking
at the lions, as if he were perfectly at home. Why is that so? Nobody
knows him, everybody knows me, everyone is afraid for me, while—— And
he is such a silly man—you will see him. [<i>Laughs.</i>] But don't you
think of entering the cage yourself! My red one would give you such a
slap!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Displeased</i>]: There you are again, Zinida—stop it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughs</i>]: All right—go. Oh yes, Louis, send me Bezano. I have to
settle an account with him.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<span class="smcap">He</span> <i>and the director go out</i>. <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>looks at the card once more,
then hides it. She gets up and walks quickly up and down the room.
She stops<a name="page_042" id="page_042"></a> to listen to the Tango, which ends abruptly. Then she
stands motionless, looking straight at the dark opening of the door
through which</i> <span class="smcap">Bezano</span> <i>comes</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Entering</i>]: You called me, Zinida? What do you want? Tell me quickly,
I have no time——</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>looks at him silently</i>. <span class="smcap">Bezano</span> <i>flushes with anger, and
knits his eyebrows. He turns to the door to go.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Bezano!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Stops, without looking up</i>]: What do you want? I have no time.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Bezano! I keep hearing people say that you are in love with Consuelo. Is
it true?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Shrugging his shoulders</i>]: We work well together.<a name="page_043" id="page_043"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Takes a step forward</i>]: No—— Tell me, Alfred, do you love her?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Flushes like a boy, but looks straight into</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida's</span> <i>eyes.
Proudly</i>]: I do not love anybody. No, I love nobody. How can I?
Consuelo? She is here to-day, gone to-morrow, if her father should take
her away. And I? Who am I? An acrobat, the son of a Milanese
shoemaker—— She! I cannot even talk about it. Like my horses I have no
words. Who am I to love?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Do you love me? A little?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>No. I told you before.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Still no? Not even a little?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>After a silence</i>]: I am afraid of you.<a name="page_044" id="page_044"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Wants to cry out, indignantly, but masters herself and lowers her
eyes, as if in an effort to shut out their light; turns pale</i>]: Am I ...
so terrifying a woman——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>You are beautiful, like a queen. You are almost as beautiful as
Consuelo. But I don't like your eyes. Your eyes command me to love
you—and I don't like to be commanded. I am afraid of you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Do I command, Bezano? No—only implore.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>Then why not look at me straight? Now I have it. You know yourself that
your eyes cannot implore. [<i>Laughs.</i>] Your lions have spoiled you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>My red lion loves me——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>Never! If he loves you, why is he so sad?<a name="page_045" id="page_045"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Yesterday he was licking my hands like a dog.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>And this morning he was looking for you to devour you. He thrusts out
his muzzle and looks out, as if he sees only you. He is afraid of you,
and he hates you. Or do you want me to lick your hands too, like a dog?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>No, Alfred, but I—I want to kiss <i>your</i> hand. [<i>With passion</i>]: Give it
to me!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Severely</i>]: I am ashamed to listen to you when you speak like that.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Controlling herself</i>]: One should not torture another as you torture
me. Alfred, I love you. No, I do not command. Look into my eyes—— <i>I
love you.</i> [<i>Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Turns to go</i>]: Good-bye.<a name="page_046" id="page_046"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Alfred——</p>

<p>[<span class="smcap">He</span> <i>appears in the doorway, and stops</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>Please never tell me any more that you love me. I don't want it.
Otherwise I will quit. You pronounce the word love as if you were
cracking me with your whip. You know it is disgusting——</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>He turns brusquely and goes. Both notice HE</i>; <span class="smcap">Bezano</span>, <i>frowning,
passes out quickly</i>. <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>returns to her place at the desk, with
a proudly indifferent expression</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Coming in</i>]: I beg your pardon, but I——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>There you are again, poking your nose into everything, <span class="smcap">He</span>. Do you really
want a slap?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: No. I simply forgot my overcoat. I didn't hear anything.<a name="page_047" id="page_047"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>I don't care whether you did or not.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>May I take my coat?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Take it if it's yours. Sit down, <span class="smcap">He</span>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I am sitting down.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Now tell me <span class="smcap">He</span>, could you love me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: I? I and Love! Look at me, Zinida. Did you ever see a
lover with such a face?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>One can succeed with such a face——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>That's because I am happy—because I lost my hat—because I am drunk—or
perhaps I am not drunk.<a name="page_048" id="page_048"></a> But I feel as dizzy as a young girl at her
first ball. It is so nice here—slap me, I want to play my part. Perhaps
it will awaken love in my heart, too. Love—[<i>as if listening to his own
heart with pretended terror</i>] do you know—I feel it!</p>

<p>[<i>In the circus the Tango is played again</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Listening too</i>]: For me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No. I don't know. For everyone. [<i>Listens to the music.</i>] Yes, they are
dancing—how beautiful Consuelo is—and how beautiful is the youth. He
has the body of a Greek God; he looks as if he had been modeled by
Praxiteles. Love! Love! [<i>Silence, music.</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Tell me, <span class="smcap">He</span>——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>At your service, Queen!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span>, what shall I do, to make my lions love me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Curtain</span><a name="page_049" id="page_049"></a></p>

<h2><a name="ACT_II" id="ACT_II"></a>ACT II</h2>

<p><i>The same room, during the evening performance. Occasional music,
laughter, shrieks, and applause are audible. Through the small windows,
back centre, the light is shining.</i></p>

<p><i>Consuelo and Baron Regnard occupy the stage; Consuelo wears her stage
costume; she sits with her feet on the sofa, a small shawl covering her
shoulders. Before her stands the Baron, a tall stout man in evening
dress, a rose in his button-hole; grasping the ground with feet well
apart, he gazes at her with convex spider-like eyes.</i></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Is it true that your father, the Count, has introduced you to a certain
Marquis Justi, a very rich man?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Surprised</i>]: No, he is only joking. I have often heard him speak of a
Marquis Justi but I have never seen him——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>And do you know that your father is just a charlatan?<a name="page_050" id="page_050"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Oh! Don't say that—Father is such a dear.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Did you like the jewels?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Yes, very much. I was very sorry when Father told me I must return them.
He said it would not be nice for me to keep them. I even cried a little
about it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Your father is only a beggar and a charlatan.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Oh, no, don't scold him—he loves you so much.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Let me kiss your hand——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Oh, no, it isn't proper! One may kiss the hand only when one says how do
you do or good-bye. But in the meantime you can't.<a name="page_051" id="page_051"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Everybody is in love with you, that is why you and your father make such
a fuss about yourselves. Who is that new clown they call <span class="smcap">He</span>? I don't
like him, he's too shrewd a beast.... Is he in love with you, too? I
noticed the way he looked at you....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: Nothing of the kind. He is so funny! He got fifty-two
slaps yesterday. We counted them. Think of it, fifty-two slaps! Father
said, "if they had only been gold pieces."</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>And Bezano, Consuelo.... Do you like him?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Yes, very much. He is so good-looking. He says that Bezano and I are the
most beautiful couple in the world. <span class="smcap">He</span> calls him Adam, and me Eve. But
that's improper, isn't it? <span class="smcap">He</span> is <i>so</i> improper.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>And does <span class="smcap">He</span> speak to you very often?<a name="page_052" id="page_052"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Yes, often.... But I don't understand him. It seems as if he were drunk.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>"Consuelo"!... It means in Spanish ... Consolation. Your father is an
ass.... Consuelo, I love you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Talk it over with Father.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>[<i>Angry</i>]: Your father is a swindler and a charlatan. He should be
turned over to the police. Don't you understand that I <i>cannot</i> marry
you?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>But Father says you can....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>No, I cannot. And what if I shoot myself? Consuelo, silly girl, I love
<a name="page_053" id="page_053"></a>you unbearably ... unbearably, do you understand? I am probably mad ...
and must be taken to a doctor, yanked about, beaten with sticks. Why do
I love you so much, Consuelo?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Then, you'd better marry.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>I have had a hundred women, beauties, but I didn't see them. You are the
first and I don't see any one else. Who strikes man with love, God or
the Devil? The Devil struck me. Let me kiss your hand.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No. [<i>She thinks a while and sighs.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Do you think sometimes? What are you thinking about now Consuelo?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>With another sigh</i>]: I don't know why, I just felt sorry for Bezano.
[<i>Sighs again.</i>] He is so nice to me when he teaches me ... and he has
such a tiny little room.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>[<i>Indignant</i>]: You were there?<a name="page_054" id="page_054"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No. He told me about it. [<i>Smiling</i>] Do you hear the noise in there?
That's <span class="smcap">He</span> getting slapped. Poor thing ... although I know it doesn't
hurt, it's only make-believe. The intermission is coming soon.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>throws away his cigar, takes two quick steps forward,
and falls on his knees before the girl</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Consuelo——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Please, don't. Get up. Please leave my hand alone.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Consuelo!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Disgusted</i>]: Get up please, it's disgusting—you're so fat.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>gets up. Voices are heard near the door and in the
ring. It is the intermission. The clowns come first, talking
cheerfully and excitedly. He leads them, in his clown's dress,
with<a name="page_055" id="page_055"></a> painted eyebrows and white nose; the others are applauding
him. Voices of the actors calling: "Bravo! <span class="smcap">He</span>." Then come the
actors and actresses, riding-masters, and the rest, all in costume.
<span class="smcap">Zinida</span> is not among them. <span class="smcap">Papa Briquet</span> comes a little later.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>A hundred slaps! Bravo, <span class="smcap">He</span>!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Not bad, not bad at all. You'll make a career.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>He was the Professor to-day, and we were the students. Here goes
another! [<i>Gives him a clown's slap. Laughter. All bid good evening to
the <span class="smcap">Baron</span>. He is politely rude to these vagabonds who bore him, and
remains silent. They seem quite used to it. Enter <span class="smcap">Mancini</span>. He is the
same, and with the same cane.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Shaking hands</i>]: What a success, Baron—and think of it—how the crowd
does love slaps. [<i>Whispering</i>] Your knees are dusty, Baron, brush them
off. The floor is very dirty in here. [<i>Aloud</i>] Consuelo,<a name="page_056" id="page_056"></a> dear child,
how do you feel? [<i>Goes over to his daughter. Sound of laughing,
chattering. The waiters from the buffet in the lobby bring in soda and
wine. Consuelo's voice it heard.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>And where is Bezano?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Bows before the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>, <i>affecting intimacy</i>]: <i>You</i> do not recognize
me, Baron?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Yes I do. You are the clown, <span class="smcap">He</span>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes I am <span class="smcap">He</span> Who Gets Slapped. May I presume to ask you, Baron, did you
get your jewels back?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>What!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I was asked to return some jewels to you, and I take the liberty of——
[<i>The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>turns his back on him—<span class="smcap">He</span> laughs loudly</i>.]<a name="page_057" id="page_057"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Whiskey and soda! Believe me, ladies and gents, <span class="smcap">He</span> will surely make a
career. I am an old clown, and I know the crowd. Why to-day, he even
eclipsed <i>me</i>—and clouds have covered my Sun. [<i>Striking it.</i>] They do
not like puzzles, they want slaps! They are longing for them and
dreaming about them in their homes. Your health, <span class="smcap">He</span>! Another whiskey and
soda! <span class="smcap">He</span> got so many slaps to-day, there would be enough to go round the
whole orchestra!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>I bet there wouldn't! [<i>To Jackson</i>] Shake!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>I bet there wouldn't—I'll go and count the old mugs.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">A Voice</span></p>

<p>The orchestra did not laugh——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Because they were getting it, but the galleries did, because they were
looking at the orchestra getting slapped. Your health, <span class="smcap">He</span>!<a name="page_058" id="page_058"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Your's Jim! Tell me, why didn't you let me finish my speech—I was just
getting a good start.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>[<i>Seriously</i>]: My friend, because your speech was a sacrilege.
Politics—all right. Manners—as much as you want. But Providence—leave
it in peace. And believe me, friend, I shut your mouth in time. Didn't
I, Papa Briquet?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Coming nearer</i>]: Yes. It was too much like literature. This is not an
academy. You forget yourself, <span class="smcap">He</span>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>But to shut one's mouth—faugh....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a didactic tone</i>]: Whenever one shuts one's mouth, it is always
high time to shut it, unless one is drinking. Hey, whiskey and soda!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Voices</span></p>

<p>Whiskey and soda for the Manager!<a name="page_059" id="page_059"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>But this is obscurantism. Philosophizing again, Briquet?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>I am not satisfied with you to-day, <span class="smcap">He</span>. Why do you tease them? They
don't like it. Your health! A good slap must be clean like a
crystal—fft-fft! right side, left side, and done with it. They will
like it; they will laugh, and love you. But in your slaps there is a
certain bite, you understand, a certain smell——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>But they laughed, nevertheless!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>But without pleasure, without pleasure, <span class="smcap">He</span>. You pay, and immediately
draw a draft on their bank; it's not the right game—they won't like
you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>That's what <i>I</i> tell him. He had already begun to make them angry.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Entering</i>]: Consuelo, where are you? I have been looking for you—come
on. [<i>Both go out. The</i><a name="page_060" id="page_060"></a> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>, <i>after hesitating a while, follows
them</i>. <span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>accompanies him respectfully to the door</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Sighs</i>]: You don't understand, my dear friends; you are simply old,
and have forgotten the smell of the stage.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Aha! Who is old, my young man?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Don't be angry, Jim. It's a play, don't you understand? I become happy
when I enter the ring and hear the music. I wear a mask and I feel
humorous. There is a mask on my face, and I play. I may say <i>anything</i>
like a drunkard. Do you understand? Yesterday when I, with this stupid
face, was playing the great man, the philosopher [<i>he assumes a proud
monumental pose, and repeats the gesture of the play—general laughter</i>]
I was walking this way, and was telling how great, how wise, how
incomparable I was—how God lived in me, how high I stood above the
earth—how glory shone above my head [<i>his voice changes and he is
speaking faster</i>] then you, Jim, you hit me for the first time. And I
asked you, "What is it, they're applauding me?" Then, at the<a name="page_061" id="page_061"></a> tenth
slap, I said: "It seems to me that they sent for me from the Academy?"
[<i>Acts, looking around him with an air of unconquerable pride and
splendour. Laughter. Jackson gives him a real slap.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Holding his face</i>]: Why?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Because you're a fool, and play for nothing. Waiter, the check.
(<i>Laughter. The bell calls them to the ring. The actors go out in haste,
some running. The waiters collect their money.</i>)</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a sing-song</i>]: To the ring—to the ring—</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>I want to tell you something, <span class="smcap">He</span>. You are not going yet?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No. I'll take a rest.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>To the ring—to the ring—</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The clowns as they go sing in shrill, squeaky voices. Little by
little they all disappear, and loud<a name="page_062" id="page_062"></a> music begins. <span class="smcap">He</span> seats himself
on the sofa with his legs crossed, and yawns.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span>, you have something none of my ancestors ever had—money. Let's have
a nice bottle on you. Waiter, please—[<i>The waiter who was taking up
dishes, brings a bottle of wine and glasses and goes out.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You're blue, Mancini. [<i>Stretches.</i>] Well, at my age, a hundred
slaps—it seems pretty hard. So you're blue. How are things getting on
with your girl?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Tss! Bad! Complications—parents—[<i>shudders</i>] Agh—</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Prison!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: Prison! Mustn't I uphold the glory of my name now, eh? <span class="smcap">He</span>,
I'm joking—but there is Hell in my heart. You're the only one who
understands<a name="page_063" id="page_063"></a> me. But tell me how to explain this passion? It will turn
my hair grey, it'll bring me to prison, to the grave. I am a tragic man.
<span class="smcap">He</span>—[<i>Wipes his eyes with a dirty handkerchief.</i>] Why don't I like
things which are not forbidden? Why, at all moments, even at the very
moment of ecstasy, must I be reminded of some law—it is stupid. <span class="smcap">He</span>, I
am becoming an anarchist. Good God!—Count Mancini, an anarchist. That's
the only thing I've missed.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Isn't there a way of settling it somehow?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Is there a way of getting money, somehow?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>And the Baron?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Oh, yes! He's just waiting for it, the bloodsucker! He'll get what he's
after. Some day, you'll see me give him Consuelo for ten thousand
francs, perhaps for five!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Cheap.<a name="page_064" id="page_064"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Did I say it was anything else? Do I want to do it? But these bourgeois
are strangling me, they've got me by the throat. <span class="smcap">He</span>, one can easily see
that you're a gentleman, and of good society, you understand me—I
showed you the jewels which I sent back to him—damn honesty—I didn't
even dare change the stones, put false ones—</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Why?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>It would have queered the game. Do you think he didn't weigh the
diamonds when he got them back?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>He will not marry her.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes he will. You don't understand. [<i>Laughs.</i>] The first half of his
life, this man had only appetites—now love's got him. If he does not
get Consuelo, he is lost, he is—like a withered narcissus. Plague take
him with his automobiles. Did you see his car?<a name="page_065" id="page_065"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I did.... Give Consuelo to the Jockey—</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>To Bezano? [<i>Laughs.</i>] What nonsense you do talk! Oh, I know. It's your
joke about Adam and Eve. But please stop it. It's clever, but it
compromises the child. She told me about it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Or give her to me.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Have you a billion? [<i>Laughs.</i>] Ah, <span class="smcap">He</span>, I'm not in the proper mood to
listen to your clownish jokes—They say there are terrible jails in this
country, and no discriminations are being made between people of my
kind, and plain scoundrels. Why do you look at me like that? You're
making fun of me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>I'll never get accustomed to those faces. You're so disgustingly made
up.<a name="page_066" id="page_066"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>He will not marry her. You can be as proud as you please, Mancini, but
he'll not marry her. What <i>is</i> Consuelo? She is not educated. When she
is off her horse, any good housemaid from a decent house has nicer
manners, and speaks better. [<i>Nonchalantly</i>] Don't <i>you</i> think she's
stupid?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>No, she's not stupid. And you, <span class="smcap">He</span>, are a fool. What need has a woman of
intelligence? Why, <span class="smcap">He</span>, you astonish me. Consuelo is an unpolished jewel,
and only a real donkey does not notice her sparkle. Do you know what
happened? I tried to begin to polish her—</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, you took a teacher. And what happened?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Nodding his head</i>]: I was frightened—it went too fast—I had to
dismiss him. Another month or two, and <i>she</i> would have kicked <i>me</i> out.
[<i>Laughs.</i>] The clever old diamond merchants of Amsterdam keep their
precious stones unpolished, and fool the thieves. My father taught me
that.<a name="page_067" id="page_067"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>The sleep of a diamond. It is only sleeping, then. You are wise,
Mancini.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Do you know what blood flows in the veins of an Italian woman? The blood
of Hannibal and Corsini—of a Borgia—and of a dirty Lombardi
peasant—and of a Moor. Oh! an Italian woman is not of a lower race,
with only peasants and gypsies behind her. All possibilities, all forms
are included in her, as in our marvelous sculpture. Do you understand
that, you fool? Strike here—out springs a washerwoman, or a cheap
street girl whom you want to throw out, because she is sloppy and has a
screechy voice. Strike there—but carefully and gently, for there stands
a queen, a goddess, the Venus of the Capitol, who sings like a
Stradivarius and makes you cry, idiot! An Italian woman—</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You're quite a poet, Mancini! But what will the Baron make of her?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>What? What? Make of <i>her</i>? A baroness, you fool! What are you laughing
at? I don't get you?<a name="page_068" id="page_068"></a> But I am happy that this lovesick beast is neither
a duke nor a prince—or she would be a princess and I—what would become
of me? A year after the wedding they would not let me even into the
kitchen [<i>laughing</i>] not even into the kitchen! I, Count Mancini, and
she a—a simple—</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Jumping up</i>]: What did you say? You are not her father, Mancini?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Tss—the devil—I am so nervous to-day! Heavens, who do you think I am?
"Her father?" Of course [<i>tries to laugh</i>] how silly you are—haven't
you noticed the family resemblance? Just look, the nose, the
eyes—[<i>Suddenly sighs deeply.</i>] Ah, <span class="smcap">He</span>! How unhappy I am! Think of it.
Here I am, a gentleman, nearly beaten in my struggle to keep up the
honour of my name, of an old house, while there in the parquet—there
sits that beast, an elephant with the eyes of a spider ... and he looks
at Consuelo ... and....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, yes, he has the motionless stare of a spider—you're right!<a name="page_069" id="page_069"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Just what I say—a spider! But I must, I shall compel him to marry her.
You'll see—[<i>Walking excitedly up and down, playing with his cane.</i>]
You'll see! All my life I've been getting ready for this battle. [<i>He
continues to walk up and down. Silence. Outside, great stillness.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Listening</i>]: Why is it so quiet out there? What a strange silence.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Disgusted</i>]: I don't know. Out there it is quiet—but here [<i>touching
his forehead with his cane</i>] here is storm, whirlwind. [<i>Bends over the
clown.</i>] <span class="smcap">He</span>, shall I tell you a strange thing—an unusual trick of
nature? [<i>Laughs, and looks very important.</i>] For three centuries the
Counts Mancini have had no children! [<i>Laughs.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Then how were you born?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Sh! Silence! That is the secret of our sainted mothers! Ha-ha! We are
too ancient a stock—too<a name="page_070" id="page_070"></a> exquisitely refined to trouble ourselves with
such things—matters in which a peasant is more competent than
ourselves. [<i>Enter an usher.</i>] What do you want? The manager is on the
stage.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Usher</span></p>

<p>Yes, sir. Baron Regnard wished me to give you this letter.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>The Baron? Is he there?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Usher</span></p>

<p>Baron Regnard has left. There is no answer.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Opening the envelope, his hand shaking</i>]: The devil—the devil! [<i>The
usher is going.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Just a minute. Why is there no music? This silence....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Usher</span></p>

<p>It is the act with Madame Zinida and her lions. [<i>He goes.</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>is
reading the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron's</span> <i>note for the second time.</i>]<a name="page_071" id="page_071"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>What's the matter, Mancini? You shine like Jackson's sun.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>What's the matter, did you ask? What's the matter? What's the matter?
[<i>Balancing his cane, he takes steps like a ballet-dancer.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Mancini! [<span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>rolls his eyes, makes faces, dances</i>.] Speak, you
beast!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Holds out his hand</i>]: Give me ten francs! Quick—ten francs—here,
come on. [<i>Puts it automatically into his vest pocket.</i>] Listen, <span class="smcap">He</span>! If
in a month I don't have a car of my own, you may give me one of your
slaps!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>What! He's going to marry? He's decided?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>What do you mean by "decided?" [<i>Laughs.</i>] When a man has the rope about
his neck, you don't<a name="page_072" id="page_072"></a> ask him about his health! Baron—[<i>Stops suddenly,
startled.</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span> <i>is staggering in like a drunken man, his hand over
his eyes</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Goes to him, touches his shoulder gently</i>]: What is the matter, Papa
Briquet? Tell me!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Groaning</i>]: Oh, oh, I can't ... I can't ... Ah——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Something has happened? You are ill? Please speak.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>I can't look at it! [<i>Takes his hands from his eyes, opens them wide.</i>]
Why does she do it? Ah, ah, why does she do it? She must be taken away;
she is insane. I couldn't look at it. [<i>Shivers.</i>] They will tear her to
pieces. <span class="smcap">He</span>—her lions—they will tear her—</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Go on, Briquet. She is always like that. You act like a child. You ought
to be ashamed.<a name="page_073" id="page_073"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>No—— To-day she is mad! And what is the matter with the crowd?
They are all like dead people—they're not even breathing. I couldn't
stand it. Listen—what's that? [<i>All listen. There is the same
silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Disturbed</i>]: I'll go and see.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Yelling</i>]: No! Don't! You can't look—damned profession! Don't go. You
will scorch her—every pair of eyes that looks at her—at her lions—no,
no. It is impossible—it is a sacrilege. I ran away.... <span class="smcap">He</span>, they will
tear her——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Tries to be cheerful</i>]: Keep cool, Papa Briquet—I had no idea you
were such a coward. You ought to be ashamed. Have a drink. Mancini, give
him some wine.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p><a name="page_074" id="page_074"></a>I don't want any. Heavens, if it were only over—— [<i>All
listen.</i>] I have seen many things in my life, but this.... Oh, she is
crazy. [<i>All still listen. Suddenly the silence breaks, like a huge
stone wall crashing. There is a thunder of applause, mixed with shouts,
music, wild screams—half bestial, half human. The men give way,
relieved. Briquet sinks to a seat.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Nervous</i>]: You see—you see—you old fool!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Sobs and laughs</i>]: I am not going to allow it any more!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Here she is!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Zinida walks in, alone. She looks like a drunken bacchante, or
like a mad woman. Her hair falls over her shoulders dishevelled,
one shoulder is uncovered. She walks unseeing, though her eyes
glow. She is like the living statue of a mad Victory. Behind her
comes an actor, very pale, then two clowns, and a little later
Consuelo and Bezano. All look at Zinida fearfully, as if they were
afraid of a touch of her hand, or her great eyes.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Shouting</i>]: You are crazy—you're a mad woman!<a name="page_075" id="page_075"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>I? No. Did you see? Did you see? Well? [<i>She stands smiling, with the
expression of a mad Victory.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>[<i>Plaintively</i>]: Cut it out, Zinida. Go to the devil!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>You saw, too! And!... what——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Come home—come home. [<i>To the others</i>] You can do what you like here.
Zinida, come home.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>You can't go, Papa. There's still your number.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Her eyes meet those of Bezano</i>]: Ah! Bezano. [<i>Laughs long and
happily</i>.] Bezano! Alfred! Did you see? My lions <i>do</i> love me! [<i>Bezano,
without answering, leaves the stage. Zinida seems to wither and grow
dim, as a light being extinguished. Her smile fades, her eyes and face
grow pale. Briquet anxiously bends over her.</i>]<a name="page_076" id="page_076"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a slow voice</i>]: A chair! [<i>Zinida sits. Her head drops on her
shoulder, her arms fall, she begins to shiver and tremble. Some one
calls, "Cognac"—an actor runs to get it.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Helpless</i>]: What is the matter, Zinida darling?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Running about</i>]: She must quiet down. Get out, get out—vagabonds!
I'll fix everything, Papa Briquet. The wrap—where's the wrap? She's
cold. [<i>A clown hands it to him; they cover her.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>[<i>Timidly</i>]: Wouldn't you like some moosic?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Giving her some cognac</i>]: Drink, Duchess, drink! Drink it all—that's
it. [<span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>drinks it like water, evidently not noticing the taste. She
shivers. The clowns disappear one by one.</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>, <i>with a sudden
flexible movement, falls on her knees before</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>and kisses her
hands, warming them between her own</i>.]<a name="page_077" id="page_077"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Dear, dear, you are cold! Poor little hands, dear good one, beloved
one——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Pushes her away, gently</i>]: Ho—home. It will soon be over. It's
nothing ... I am ver—very ... home.... You stay here, Briquet—you
must. I'm all right.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>You are cold? Here is my shawl.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>No—let me.... [<span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>gets up, and moves aside.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>And it's all because of your books, Zinida—your mythology. Now tell me,
why do you want those beasts to love you? Beasts! Do you understand, <span class="smcap">He</span>?
You too, you're from that world. She'll listen more to you. Explain it
to her. Whom can those beasts love? Those hairy monsters, with diabolic
eyes?<a name="page_078" id="page_078"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Genially</i>]: I believe—only their equals. You are right, Papa
Briquet—there must be the same race.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Of course, and this is all nonsense—literature. Explain it to her, <span class="smcap">He</span>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Takes on a meditative air</i>]: Yes, you are right, Briquet.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>You see, dear, silly woman—everybody agrees....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Oh! Briquet, you make me sick; you are an absolute despot, an Asiatic.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>With the shadow of a smile, gives her hand to be kissed</i>]: Calm
yourself, Louis. It is over—I am going home. [<i>She stands up, shaking,
still chilled.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>But how? alone, dear?<a name="page_079" id="page_079"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>What! fool! Did you imagine that Count Mancini would leave a woman when
she needed help? I shall take her home—let your brutal heart be at
rest—I shall take her home. Thomas, run for an automobile. Don't push
me Briquet, you are as awkward as a unicorn ... that's the way, that's
the way—— [<i>They are holding her, guiding her slowly toward the door</i>].
<span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>, <i>her chin resting in her hand, is following them with her
eyes. Unconsciously she assumes a somewhat affected pose.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>I'll come back for you, child—— [<i>Only</i> <span class="smcap">He</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>are left on
the stage. In the ring, music, shrieks, and laughter begin again.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Consuelo——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Is that you, <span class="smcap">He</span>, dear?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Where did you learn that pose? I have seen it only in marble. You look
like Psyche.<a name="page_080" id="page_080"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I don't know, <span class="smcap">He</span>. [<i>She sighs and sits on the sofa, keeping in her pose
the same artificiality and beauty.</i>] It's all so sad here, to-day. <span class="smcap">He</span>,
are you sorry for <span class="smcap">Zinida</span>?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>What did she do?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I didn't see. I had closed my eyes, and didn't open them. Alfred says
she is a wicked woman, but that isn't true. She has such nice eyes, and
what tiny cold hands—as if she were dead. What does she do it for?
Alfred says she should be audacious, beautiful, but quiet, otherwise
what she does is only disgusting. It isn't true, is it, <span class="smcap">He</span>?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>She loves Alfred.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Alfred? My Bezano? [<i>Shrugging her shoulders, and surprised</i>] How does
she love him? The same as everyone loves?<a name="page_081" id="page_081"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes—as everyone loves—or still more.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Bezano? Bezano? No—it's nonsense. [<i>Pause; silence.</i>] What a beautiful
costume you have, <span class="smcap">He</span>. You invented it yourself?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Jim helped me.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Jim is so nice! All clowns are nice.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I am wicked.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughs</i>]: You? You are the nicest of all. Oh, goodness! Three acts
more! This is the second on now. Alfred and I are in the third. Are you
coming to see me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I always do. How beautiful you are, Consuelo.<a name="page_082" id="page_082"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Like Eve? [<i>Smiles.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, Consuelo. And if the Baron asks you to be his wife, will you
accept?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Certainly, <span class="smcap">He</span>. That's all Father and I are waiting for. Father told me
yesterday that the Baron will not hesitate very long. Of course I do not
love him. But I will be his honest, faithful wife. Father wants to teach
me to play the piano.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Are those your own words—"his honest, faithful wife"?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Certainly they are mine. Whose could they be? He loves me so much, the
poor thing. Dear <span class="smcap">He</span>, what does "love" mean? Everybody speaks of
love—love—Zinida, too! Poor Zinida! What a boring evening this has
been! <span class="smcap">He</span>, did you paint the laughter on your face yourself?<a name="page_083" id="page_083"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>My own self, dear little Consuelo——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>How do you do it, all of you? I tried once, but couldn't do a thing. Why
are there no women clowns? Why are you so silent, <span class="smcap">He</span>? You, too, are sad,
to-night.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No, I am happy to-night. Give me your hand, Consuelo, I want to see what
it says.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Do you know how? What a talented man you are! Read it, but don't <i>lie</i>,
like a gypsy. [<i>He goes down on one knee and takes her hand. Both bend
over it.</i>] Am I lucky?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, lucky. But wait a minute—this line here—funny. Ah, Consuelo, what
does it say, here! [<i>Acting</i>] I tremble, my eyes do not dare to read the
strange, fatal signs. Consuelo—</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>The stars are talking.<a name="page_084" id="page_084"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, the stars are talking. Their voices are distant and terrible; their
rays are pale, and their shadows slip by, like the ghosts of dead
virgins—their spell is upon thee, Consuelo, beautiful Consuelo. Thou
standest at the door of Eternity.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I don't understand. Does it mean that I will live long?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>This line—how far it goes. Strange! Thou wilt live eternally, Consuelo.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>You see, <span class="smcap">He</span>, you did tell me a lie, just like a gypsy!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>But it is written—here, silly—and here. Now think of what the stars
are saying. Here you have eternal life, love, and glory; and here,
listen to what Jupiter says. He says: "Goddess, thou must not belong to
any one born on earth," and if you marry the Baron—you'll perish,
you'll die, Consuelo. [<i>Consuelo laughs.</i>]<a name="page_085" id="page_085"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Will he eat me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No. But you will die before he has time to eat you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>And what will become of Father? Is there nothing about him here?
[<i>Laughing, she softly sings the melody of the waltz, which is playing
in the distance.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Don't laugh, Consuelo, at the voice of the stars. They are far away,
their rays are light and pale, and we can barely see their sleeping
shadows, but their sorcery is stern and dark. You stand at the gates of
eternity. Your die is cast; you are <i>doomed</i>—and your Alfred, whom you
love in your heart, even though your mind is not aware of it, your
Alfred cannot save you. He, too, is a stranger on this earth. He is
submerged in a deep sleep. He, too, is a little god who has lost
himself, and Consuelo, never, never will he find his way to Heaven
again. Forget Bezano——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I don't understand a word. Do the gods really exist? My teacher told me
about them. But I<a name="page_086" id="page_086"></a> thought it was all tales! [<i>Laughs.</i>] And my Bezano
is a god?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Forget Bezano! Consuelo, do you know who can save you? The only one who
can save you? I.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: You, <span class="smcap">He</span>?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, but don't laugh! Look. Here is the letter H. It is I, <span class="smcap">He</span>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span> Who Gets Slapped? Is that written here, too?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>That, too. The stars know everything. But look here, what more is
written about him. Consuelo, welcome him. <span class="smcap">He</span> is an old god in disguise,
who came down to earth only to love you, foolish little Consuelo.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing and singing</i>]: Some god!<a name="page_087" id="page_087"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Don't mock! The gods don't like such, empty laughter from beautiful
lips. The gods grow lonely and die, when they are not recognized. Oh,
Consuelo! Oh, great joy and love! Do recognize this god, and accept him.
Think a moment, one day a god suddenly went crazy!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Gods go crazy, too?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, when they are half man, then they often go mad. Suddenly he saw his
own sublimity, and shuddered with horror, with infinite solitude, with
super-human anguish. It is terrible, when anguish touches the divine
soul!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I don't like it. What language are you speaking? I don't understand——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I speak the language of thy awakening. Consuelo, recognize and accept
thy god, who was thrown down from the summit like a stone. Accept the
god who fell<a name="page_088" id="page_088"></a> to the earth in order to live, to play, and to be
infinitely drunk with joy. Evoë Goddess!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Tortured</i>]: <span class="smcap">He</span>—— I cannot understand. Let my hand alone.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Stands up</i>]: Sleep. Then wake again, Consuelo! And when thou
wakest—remember that hour when, covered with snow-white sea-foam, thou
didst emerge from the sky-blue waters. Remember heaven, and the slow
eastern wind, and the whisper of the foam at thy marble feet.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Her eyes are closed</i>]: I believe—wait—I remember. Remind me
further——</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<span class="smcap">He</span> <i>is bowed over</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>, <i>with lifted arms; he speaks slowly,
but in a commanding voice, as if conjuring</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You see the waves playing. Remember the song of the sirens, their
sorrowless song of joy. Their white bodies, shining blue through the
blue waters. Or can<a name="page_089" id="page_089"></a> you hear the sun, singing? Like the strings of a
divine harp, spread the golden rays—— Do you not see the hand
of God, which gives harmony, light, and love to the world? Do not the
mountains, in the blue cloud of incense, sing their hymn of glory?
Remember, O Consuelo, remember the prayer of the mountains, the prayer
of the sea. [<i>Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Commandingly</i>]: Remember—Consuelo!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Opening her eyes</i>]: No! <span class="smcap">He</span>, I was feeling so happy, and suddenly I
forgot it all. Yet something of it all is still in my heart. Help me
again, HE, remind me. It hurts, I hear so many voices. They all sing
"Consuelo—Consuelo." What comes after? [<i>Silence; pause.</i>] What comes
after? It hurts. Remind me, <span class="smcap">He</span>. [<i>Silence—in the ring, the music
suddenly bursts forth in a tempestuous circus gallop. Silence.</i>] <span class="smcap">He</span>,
[<i>opens her eyes and smiles</i>] that's Alfred galloping. Do you recognize
his music?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>With rage</i>]: Leave the boy alone! [<i>Suddenly falls on his knees
before</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>.] <i>I love you, Consuelo</i>, revelation of my heart, light
of my nights, I<a name="page_090" id="page_090"></a> love you, Consuelo. [<i>Looks at her in ecstasy and
tears—and gets a slap; starting back.</i>] What's this?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>A slap! You forget who you are. [<i>Stands up, with anger in her eyes.</i>]
You are <span class="smcap">He</span> Who Gets Slapped! Did you forget it? Some god! With such a
face—slapped face! Was it with slaps they threw you down from heaven,
god?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Wait! Don't stand up! I—did not finish the play!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Sits</i>]: Then you were playing?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Wait! One minute.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>You lied to me. Why did you play so that I believed you?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I am <span class="smcap">He</span> Who Gets Slapped!<a name="page_091" id="page_091"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>You are not angry because I struck you? I did not want to really, but
you were so—disgusting. And now you are so funny again. You have great
talent, <span class="smcap">He</span>—or are you drunk?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Strike me again.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I need it for my play. Strike!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughs, and touches his cheek with her fingertips</i>]: Here, then!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Didn't you understand that you are a queen, and I a fool who is in love
with his queen? Don't you know, Consuelo, that every queen has a fool,
and he is always in love with her, and they always beat him for it. <span class="smcap">He</span>
Who Gets Slapped.<a name="page_092" id="page_092"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No. I didn't know.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, every queen. Beauty has her fool. Wisdom, too. Oh, how many fools
she has! Her court is overcrowded with enamoured fools, and the sound of
slaps does not cease, even through the night. But I never received such
a sweet slap as the one given by my little queen. [<i>Someone appears at
the door.</i> <span class="smcap">He</span> <i>notices it, and continues to play, making many faces</i>.]
Clown <span class="smcap">He</span> can have no rival! Who is there who could stand such a deluge
of slaps, such a hail-storm of slaps, and not get soaked? [<i>Feigns to
cry aloud.</i>] "Have pity on me. I am but a poor fool!"</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Enter two men: an actor, dressed as a bareback rider, and a
gentleman from the audience. He is spare, dressed in black, very
respectable. He carries his hat in his hand.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing, embarrassed</i>]: <span class="smcap">He</span>, there is someone here. Stop!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Gets up</i>]: Who is it? Who dares to intrude in the castle of my queen?<a name="page_093" id="page_093"></a></p>

<p>[<i>HE stops, suddenly. Consuelo, laughing, jumps up and runs away, after
a quick glance at the gentleman.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>You cheered me up, <span class="smcap">He</span>. Good-bye. [<i>At the door</i>] You shall get a note
to-morrow.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Bareback Rider</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: A jolly fellow, sir. You wanted to see him? There he is.
<span class="smcap">He</span>, the gentleman wants to see you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a depressed voice</i>]: What can I do for you?</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The actor bows, and goes away, smiling. Both men take a step
toward each other.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Is this you?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes! It is I. And you? [<i>Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Must I believe my eyes? Is this <i>you</i>, Mr.——<a name="page_094" id="page_094"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a rage</i>]: My name here is <span class="smcap">He</span>. I have no other name, do you hear? <span class="smcap">He</span>
Who Gets Slapped. And if you want to stay here, don't forget it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>You are so familiar. As far as I can remember——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>We are all familiar, here. [<i>Contemptuously</i>] Besides, that's all you
deserve, anywhere.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Humbly</i>]: You have not forgiven me, <span class="smcap">He</span>? [<i>Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Are you here with my wife? Is she, too, in the circus?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Quickly</i>]: Oh, no! I am alone. She stayed there!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You've left her already?<a name="page_095" id="page_095"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Humbly</i>]: No—we have—a son. After your sudden and mysterious
disappearance—when you left that strange and insulting letter——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughs</i>]: Insulting? You are still able to feel insults? What are you
doing here? Were you looking for me, or is it an accident?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I have been looking for you, for half a year—through many countries.
And suddenly, to-day—by accident, indeed—I had no acquaintances here,
and I went to the circus. We must talk things over ... <span class="smcap">He</span>, I implore
you. [<i>Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Here is a shadow I cannot lose! To talk things over! Do you really think
we still have something to talk over? All right. Leave your address with
the porter, and I will let you know when you can see me. Now get out.
[<i>Proudly.</i>] I am busy.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The gentleman bows and leaves. HE does not return his bow, but
stands with outstretched hand, in the pose of a great man, who
shows a boring visitor the door.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Curtain</span><a name="page_096" id="page_096"></a></p>

<h2><a name="ACT_III" id="ACT_III"></a>ACT III</h2>

<p><i>The same room. Morning, before the rehearsal. HE is striding
thoughtfully up and down the room. He wears a broad, parti-coloured
coat, and a prismatic tie. His derby is on the back of his head, and his
face is clean-shaven like that of an actor. His eyebrows are drawn, lips
pressed together energetically, his whole appearance severe and sombre.
After the entrance of the gentleman he changes. His face becomes
clown-like, mobile—a living mask.</i></p>

<p><i>The gentleman comes in. He is dressed in black, and has an extremely
well-bred appearance. His thin face is yellowish, like an invalid's.
When he is upset, his colourless, dull eyes often twitch. HE does not
notice him.</i></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Good morning, sir.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Turning around and looking at him absent-mindedly</i>]: Ah! It's you.<a name="page_097" id="page_097"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I am not late? You look as if you did not expect me. I hope I am not
disturbing you? You fixed this time yourself however, and I took the
liberty——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No manners, please. What do you want? Tell me quickly, I have no time.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Looking around with distaste</i>]: I expected you would invite me to some
other place ... to your home.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I have no other home. This is my home.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>But people may disturb us here.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>So much the worse for you. Talk faster! [<i>Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Will you allow me to sit down?<a name="page_098" id="page_098"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Sit down. Look out! That chair is broken.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The gentleman, afraid, pushes away the chair and looks helplessly
around. Everything here seems to him dangerous and strange. He
chooses an apparently solid little gilded divan, and sits down;
puts his silk hat aside, slowly takes off his gloves, which stick
to his fingers. HE observes him indifferently.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>In this suit, and with this face, you make a still stranger impression.
Yesterday it seemed to me that it was all a dream; to-day ... <i>you</i> ...</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You have forgotten my name again? My name is <span class="smcap">He</span>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>You are determined to continue talking to me like this?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Decidedly! But you are squandering your time like a millionaire. Hurry
up!<a name="page_099" id="page_099"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I really don't know.... Everything here strikes me so.... These posters,
horses, animals, which I passed when I was looking for you.... And
finally, <i>you</i>, a clown in a circus! [<i>With a slight, deprecating
smile.</i>] Could I expect it? It is true, when everybody there decided
that you were dead, I was the only man who did not agree with them. I
felt that you were still alive. But to find you among such
surroundings—I can't understand it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You said you have a son, now. Doesn't he look like me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I don't understand?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Don't you know that widows or divorced women often have children by the
new husband, which resemble the old one? This misfortune did not befall
you? [<i>Laughs.</i>] And your book, too, is a big success, I hear.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>You want to insult me again?<a name="page_100" id="page_100"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: What a restless, touchy faker you are! Please sit still;
be quiet. It is the custom here to speak this way. Why were you trying
to find me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>My conscience....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You have no conscience. Or were you afraid that you hadn't robbed me of
<i>everything</i> I possessed, and you came for the rest? But what more could
you take from me now? My fool's cap with its bells? You wouldn't take
it. It's too big for your bald head! Crawl back, you book-worm!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>You cannot forgive the fact that your wife....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>To the devil with my wife! [<i>The gentleman is startled and raises his
eyebrows. HE laughs.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I don't know.... But such language! I confess I find difficulty in
<a name="page_101" id="page_101"></a>expressing my thoughts in such an atmosphere, but if you are so ...
indifferent to your wife, who, I shall allow myself to emphasize the
fact, loved you and thought you were a saint—— [<i>HE laughs.</i>]
Then <i>what</i> brought you to such a ... step? Or is it that you cannot
forgive me my success? A success, it is true, not entirely deserved. And
now you want to take vengeance, with your humbleness, on those who
misunderstood you. But you always were so indifferent to glory. Or your
indifference was only hypocrisy. And when I, a more lucky rival ...</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>With a burst of laughter</i>]: Rival! You—a rival!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[Growing Pale]: But my book!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You are talking to me about <i>your</i> book? To me? [<i>The gentleman is very
pale. HE looks at him with curiosity and mockery.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Raising his eyes</i>]: I am a very unhappy man.<a name="page_102" id="page_102"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Why?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I am a very unhappy man. You must forgive me. I am deeply, irreparably,
and infinitely unhappy.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>But why? Explain it to me. [<i>Starts walking up and down.</i>] You say
yourself that your book is a tremendous success, you are famous, you
have glory; there is not a yellow newspaper in which <i>you</i> and <i>your</i>
thoughts are not mentioned. Who knows <i>me</i>? Who cares about my heavy
abstractions, from which it was difficult for them to derive a single
thought? You—you are the great vulgarizer! You have made my thoughts
comprehensible even to horses! With the art of a great vulgarizer, a
tailor of ideas, you dressed my Apollo in a barber's jacket, you handed
my Venus a yellow ticket, and to my bright hero you gave the ears of an
ass. And then your career is made, as Jackson says. And wherever I go,
the whole street looks at me with thousands of faces, in which—what
mockery—I recognize the traits of my own children. Oh! How ugly your
son must be, if he resembles me! Why then are you unhappy, you poor
devil? [<i>The gentleman bows his head, plucking at his gloves.</i>]<a name="page_103" id="page_103"></a> The
police haven't caught you, as yet. What am I talking about? Is it
possible to catch you? You always keep within the limits of the law. You
have been torturing yourself up to now because you are not married to my
wife. A notary public is always present at your thefts. What is the use
of this self-torture, my friend? Get married. I died. You are not
satisfied with having taken only my wife? Let my glory remain in your
possession. It is yours. Accept my ideas. Assume all the rights, my most
lawful heir! I died! And when I was dying [<i>making a stupidly pious
face</i>] I forgave thee! [<i>Bursts out laughing. The gentleman raises his
head, and bending forward, looks straight into HE's eyes.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>And my pride?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Have you any pride? [<i>The gentleman straightens up, and nods his head
silently.</i>] Yes! But please stand off a little. I don't like to look at
you. Think of it. There was a time when I loved you a little, even
thought you a little gifted! You—my empty shadow.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Nodding his head</i>]: I am your shadow. [<i>HE keeps on walking, and looks
over his shoulder at the gentleman, with a smile.</i>]<a name="page_104" id="page_104"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Oh, you are marvellous! What a comedy! What a touching comedy! Listen.
Tell me frankly if you can; do you hate me very much?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Yes! With all the hate there is in the world! Sit down here.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You order me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Sit down here. Thank you. [<i>Bows.</i>] I am respected and I am famous, yes?
I have a wife and a son, yes. [<i>Laughs slowly.</i>] My wife still loves
you: our favourite discussion is about your genius. She supposes you are
a genius. We, I and she, love you even when we are in bed. Tss! It is I
who must make faces. My son—yes, he'll resemble you. And when, in order
to have a little rest, I go to my desk, to my ink-pot, my books—there,
too, I find you. Always you! Everywhere you! And I am never alone—never
myself and alone. And when at night—you, sir, should understand
this—when at night I go to my lonely thoughts, to my sleepless
contemplations,<a name="page_105" id="page_105"></a> even then I find your image in my head, in my
unfortunate brain, your damned and hateful image! [<i>Silence. The
gentleman's eyes twitch.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Speaking slowly</i>]: What a comedy. How marvellously everything is
turned about in this world: the robbed proves to be a robber, and the
robber is complaining of theft, and cursing! [<i>Laughs.</i>] Listen, I was
mistaken. You are not my shadow. You are the crowd. If you live by my
creations, you hate me; if you breathe my breath, you are choking with
anger. And choking with anger, hating me, you still walk slowly on the
trail of my ideas. But you are advancing backward, advancing backward,
comrade! Oh, what a marvellous comedy! [<i>Walking and smiling.</i>] Tell me,
would you be relieved if I really had died?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Yes! I think so. Death augments distance and dulls the memory. Death
reconciles. But you do not look like a man who——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, yes! Death, <i>certainly</i>!<a name="page_106" id="page_106"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Sit down here.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Your obedient servant. Yes?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>Certainly, I do not dare to ask you—[<i>makes a grimace</i>] to ask you to
die, but tell me: you'll never come back there? No, don't laugh. If you
want me to, I'll kiss your hand. Don't grimace! I would have done so if
you had died.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Slowly</i>]: Get out, vermin!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Enter Tilly and Polly as in the first act, playing. For a long
time they do not see the two men.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Jack!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>Ah! Good morning, <span class="smcap">He</span>. We are rehearsing. You know it is very hard. Jack
has just about as much music in his head as my pig.<a name="page_107" id="page_107"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Introducing, nonchalantly</i>]: My friend.... For the benefit
performance? [<i>The clowns bow to the gentleman, making idiotic faces.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>Yes. What are you preparing? You are cunning, <span class="smcap">He</span>! Consuelo told me what
you are preparing for the benefit performance. She leaves us soon, you
know?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Is that so?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>Zinida told us. Do you think she would get a benefit performance
otherwise? She is a nice girl.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>[<i>Taking his small flute-pipe</i>]: Here! Don't walk as if you were an
elephant. Don't forget you are an ant! Come on! [<i>They go off,
playing.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Smiling</i>]: These are your new comrades? How strange they are!<a name="page_108" id="page_108"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Everything here is strange.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>This suit of yours. Black used to be very becoming to you. This one
hurts the eyes.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Looking himself over</i>]: Why? It looks very nice. The rehearsal has
begun. You must go away. You are disturbing us.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>You did not answer my question.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Slow strains of the Tango from a small orchestra in the ring.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Listening absent-mindedly to the music</i>]: What question?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Who does not hear the music</i>]: I pray you to tell me: will you ever
come back?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Listening to the music</i>]: Never, never, never!<a name="page_109" id="page_109"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Getting up</i>]: Thank you. I am going.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Never, never, never! Yes, run along. And don't come back. There you were
still bearable and useful for something, but here you are superfluous.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>But if something should happen to you ... you are a healthy man, but in
this environment, these people ... how will I know? They don't know your
name here?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>My name here is unknown, but <i>you will know</i>. Anything else?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I can be at peace? On your word of honour? Of course I mean,
comparatively, at peace?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, you may be comparatively at peace. Never! [<i>They walk to the door,
the gentleman stops.</i>]<a name="page_110" id="page_110"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>May I come to the circus? You will allow me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Certainly. You are the audience! [<i>Laughs.</i>] But I shan't give you my
card for a pass. But why do you want to come? Or do you like the circus
so much, and since when?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>I want to look at you some more, and to understand, perhaps. Such a
transformation! Knowing you as I do, I cannot admit that you are here
without any <i>idea</i>. But what idea? [<i>Looks short-sightedly at HE. HE
grimaces and thumbs his nose.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>What is that?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p><i>My idea!</i> Good-bye, Prince! My regards to your respected wife, your
Highness' wonderful son! [<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>You positively live in the circus, <span class="smcap">He</span>. Whenever I come, you are here.
You are a fanatic in your work, sir.<a name="page_111" id="page_111"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Introducing</i>]: Prince Poniatovsky, Count Mancini.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Drawing himself up</i>]: Very, very glad. And you too, Prince, you know
my queer fellow? What a nice face he has, hasn't he? [<i>He touches HE'S
shoulder patronizingly, with the tip of his cane.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Awkwardly</i>]: Yes, I have the pleasure ... certainly. Good-bye, Count.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Good-day, Prince.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Accompanying him</i>]: Look out, your Highness, for the dark passages:
the steps are so rotten. Unfortunately I cannot usher you out to the
street.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a low voice</i>]: You will not give me your hand when we say good-bye?
We are parting for ever.<a name="page_112" id="page_112"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Unnecessary, Prince. I shall still hope to meet you in the Kingdom of
Heaven. I trust you will be there, too?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>With disgust</i>]: How you did succeed! You have so much of the clown in
you!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I am <span class="smcap">He</span> Who is Getting Slapped. Good-bye, Prince. [<i>They take another
step.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Gentleman</span></p>

<p>[<i>Looking HE in the eyes; in a very low voice</i>]: Tell me, you are not
mad?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Just at low, his eyes wide open</i>]: I am afraid, I am afraid you are
right, Prince. [<i>Still low</i>] Ass! Never in your life did you use such a
precise expression. I am mad!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Playing the clown again, he shows him to the stair, with a big,
affected gesture, a sweep of the hand and arm from his head to the
floor, the fingers moving, to represent the steps.</i>]</p></div>

<p><a name="page_113" id="page_113"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: He is down! <i>Au revoir</i>, Prince. [<i>The gentleman goes out.
HE comes skipping back, and takes a pose.</i>] Mancini! Let us dance the
Tango! Mancini, I adore you!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Sitting back comfortably and playing with his cane</i>]: Don't forget
yourself, <span class="smcap">He</span>. But you're hiding something, my boy. I always said you
used to belong to society. It is so easy to talk to you. And who is this
Prince? A genuine one?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Genuine. A first-rater. Like you!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>A sympathetic face. Although at first I thought he was an undertaker who
came for an order. Ah, <span class="smcap">He</span>! When shall I finally depart from these dirty
walls, from Papa Briquet, stupid posters, and brutal jockeys!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Very soon, Mancini.<a name="page_114" id="page_114"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes, soon. I am simply exhausted in these surroundings, <span class="smcap">He</span>! I begin to
feel myself a horse. You are from society, still you don't yet know what
high society means. To be at last decently dressed, to attend
receptions, to display the splendour of wit; from time to time to have a
game of baccarat [<i>laughing</i>] without tricks or cheating——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>And when evening comes, go to a suburb, where you are considered an
honest father, who loves his children and——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>And get hold of something, eh? [<i>Laughs.</i>] I shall wear a silk mask and
two butlers shall follow me, thus protecting me from the dirty crowd.
Ah, <span class="smcap">He</span>! The blood of my ancestors boils in me. Look at this stiletto.
What do you think? Do you think that it was ever stained with blood?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You frighten me, Count!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing, and putting the stiletto back into its sheath</i>]: Fool!<a name="page_115" id="page_115"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>And what about the girl?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Tss! I give those bourgeois absolute satisfaction, and they glorify my
name. [<i>Laughs.</i>] The splendour of my name is beginning to shine with a
force unknown. By the way, do you know what automobile firms are the
best? Money is no object. [<i>Laughs.</i>] Ah! Papa Briquet!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Enter Briquet in his overcoat and silk hat. They shake hands.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>So, Mancini, you have obtained a benefit performance for your daughter,
Consuelo! I only want to tell you, that if it were not for Zinida....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Listen, Briquet. Decidedly you are a donkey. What are you complaining
of? The Baron has bought all the parquet seats for Consuelo's benefit
performance. Isn't that enough for you, you miser?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>I love your daughter, Mancini, and I am sorry to let her go. What more
does she need here? She has<a name="page_116" id="page_116"></a> an honest job, wonderful comrades, and the
atmosphere—?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Not <i>she</i>, but <i>I</i> need something. You understand? [<i>Laughs.</i>] I asked
you to increase her salary, Harpagon! and now, Mr. Manager, wouldn't you
like to change me a thousand franc note?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>With a sigh</i>]: Give it to me.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Nonchalantly</i>]: To-morrow. I left it at home. [<i>All three laugh.</i>]
Laugh, laugh! To-day we are going with the Baron to his villa in the
country; people say a very nice villa.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>What for?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>You know, <span class="smcap">He</span>, the crazes of these billionaires. He wants to show
Consuelo some winter roses, and me his wine cellars. He will come for us
here. What is the matter, my little Consuelo?</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>, <i>almost crying</i>.]</p></div>

<p><a name="page_117" id="page_117"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I can't father! Tell him! What right has he to yell at me? He almost hit
me with his whip!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Straightening up</i>]: Briquet! I beg of you, as the Manager, what is
this—a stable? To hit my daughter with a whip! I'll show this cub ... a
mere jockey.... No, the devil knows what it is, devil knows, I swear....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Father....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>I will tell him.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Please don't. Alfred didn't hit me. It's a silly thing, what I told you.
What an idea! He is so sorry himself....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>I shall tell him anyhow that——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Don't you dare. You mustn't tell him anything. He didn't do a thing.<a name="page_118" id="page_118"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Still excited</i>]: He must beg her pardon, the brat.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>He's already asked me to forgive him. How silly you all are! I simply
cannot work to-day and I got nervous. What nonsense! The silly boy asked
me to forgive him, but I didn't want to. <span class="smcap">He</span>, dear, good morning! I
didn't notice you. How becoming your tie is! Where are you going,
Briquet? To Alfred?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>No, I am going home, dear child. Zinida asked me to give you her love.
She will not be here to-day, either. [<i>He goes out.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Zinida is so nice, so good. Father, why is it that everybody seems so
nice to me? Probably because I am going away soon. <span class="smcap">He</span>, did you hear the
march that Tilly and Polly will play? [<i>Laughs.</i>] Such a cheerful one.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes. I heard it. Your benefit performance will be remarkable.<a name="page_119" id="page_119"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I think so, too. Father I am hungry. Have them bring me a sandwich.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I'll run for it, my Queen.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Please do, <span class="smcap">He</span>. [<i>Loudly</i>] But not cheese. I don't like it.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>are alone</i>. <span class="smcap">Mancini</span>, <i>lying back
comfortably in an armchair, scrutinizes his daughter with a
searching eye</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>I find something particular in you to-day, my child. I don't know
whether it is something better or worse. You cried?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Yes, a little. Oh, I am so hungry.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>But you had your breakfast?<a name="page_120" id="page_120"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No, I didn't. That's why I am so hungry. You again forgot to leave me
some money this morning, and without money....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Oh, the devil ... what a memory I have. [<i>Laughs.</i>] But we shall have a
very nice meal to-day. Don't eat very many sandwiches.... Yes,
positively I like you. You must cry more often, my child; it washes off
your superfluous simplicity. You become more of a woman.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Am I so simple, Father?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Very.... Too much. I like it in others, but not in you. Besides, the
Baron....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Nonsense. I am not simple. But you know, Bezano scolded me so much, that
even you would have cried. The devil knows....<a name="page_121" id="page_121"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Tsss.... Never say "the devil knows." It isn't decent.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I say it only when I am with you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>You must not say it when you are with me, either. I know it without you.
[<i>Laughs.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Ha! Listen, Father! It's a new number of Alfred's. He makes such a jump!
Jim says he's bound to break his neck. Poor fish....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Indifferently</i>]: Or his leg, or his back; they all have to break
something. [<i>Laughs.</i>] They are breakable toys.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Listening to the music</i>]: I'll be lonesome without them, Father! The
Baron promised to make a ring for me to gallop over as much as I want.
He's not lying?<a name="page_122" id="page_122"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>A ring? [<i>Laughs.</i>] No, it's not a lie. By the way, child, when speaking
of Barons, you must say, "he does not tell the truth," and not, "he
lies."</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>It's just the same. It's nice to be wealthy, Father; you can do what you
want, then.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>With enthusiasm</i>]: Everything you want. Everything, my child. Ah! Our
fate is being decided to-day. Pray our clement God, Consuelo. The Baron
is hanging on a thread.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Indifferently</i>]: Yes?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Making the gesture with his fingers</i>]: On a very thin, silk thread. I
am almost sure that he will make his proposal to-day. [<i>Laughs.</i>] Winter
roses, and the web of a spider amongst the roses, in order that my dear
little fly.... He is such a spider.<a name="page_123" id="page_123"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Indifferently</i>]: Yes, a terrible spider. Father, oughtn't I to let him
kiss my hand yet?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>By no means. You don't know yet, darling, what these men are.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Alfred never kisses.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Alfred! Your Alfred is a cub, and he mustn't dare. But with men of that
sort, you must be extremely careful, my child. To-day he would kiss your
little finger, to-morrow your hand, and after to-morrow you would be on
his lap.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Foui! Father, what are you talking about? You should be ashamed!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>But I know....<a name="page_124" id="page_124"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Don't you dare! I don't want to hear such dirty things. I shall give the
Baron such a slap! A better one than <span class="smcap">He</span>—let him only try.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>With a deprecating gesture</i>]: All men are like that, child.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>It isn't true. Alfred is not. Ah! But where is <span class="smcap">He</span>? He said he'd run, and
he hasn't come back.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>The buffet here is closed, and he has to get the sandwiches somewhere
else. Consuelo, as your father, I want to warn you about <span class="smcap">He</span>. Don't trust
him. He knows something. [<i>Twirls his finger close to his forehead.</i>]
His game is not fair.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>You say it about everybody. I know <span class="smcap">He</span>; he is such a nice man, and he
loves me so much.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Believe me, there is something in it.<a name="page_125" id="page_125"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Father, you make me sick with your advice. Ah! <span class="smcap">He</span>, thank you.</p>

<p>[<i>HE, breathing somewhat heavily, enters and gives her the sandwiches.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Eat, Consuelo.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>A hot one.... But you were running, <span class="smcap">He</span>? I am so grateful. [<i>Eats.</i>] <span class="smcap">He</span>,
do you love me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I do, my Queen. I am your court fool.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Eating</i>]: And when I leave, will you find another queen?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Making a ceremonious bow</i>]: I shall follow after you, my incomparable
one. I shall carry the train of your dress and wipe away my tears with
it. [<i>Pretends to cry.</i>]<a name="page_126" id="page_126"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Idiot! [<i>Laughs.</i>] How sorry I am, <span class="smcap">He</span>, that those wonderful times have
passed, when, in the court of the Counts Mancini, there were scores of
motley fools who were given gold and kicks.... Now, Mancini is compelled
to go to this dirty circus in order to see a good fool; and still, whose
fool is he? Mine? No. He belongs to everybody who pays a franc. We shall
very soon be unable to breathe because of Democracy. Democracy, too,
needs fools! Think of it, <span class="smcap">He</span>; what an unexampled impertinence.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>We are the servants of those who pay. But how can we help it, Count?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>But is that not sad? Imagine: we are in my castle. I, near the fireplace
with my glass of wine, you, at my feet chatting your nonsense, jingling
your little bells—diverting me. Sometimes you pinch me too with your
jokes: it is allowed by the traditions and necessary for the circulation
of the blood. After a while—I am sick of you, I want another one....
Then I give you a kick and.... Ah, <span class="smcap">He</span>, how wonderful it would be!<a name="page_127" id="page_127"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>It would be marvellous, Mancini!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes. Certainly! You would be getting gold coins, those wonderfully
little yellow things.... Well, when I become rich, I shall take you.
That's settled.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Take him, Father....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>And when the count, tired of my chattering, will give me a kick with his
Highness's foot, then I shall lie down at the little feet of my queen,
and shall....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: Wait for another kick? I'm finished. Father, give me your
handkerchief, I want to wipe my hands. You have another one in your
pocket. Oh, my goodness, I must work some more!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Uneasy</i>]: But don't forget, my child!<a name="page_128" id="page_128"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No, to-day I won't forget! Go on!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Looking at his watch</i>]: Yes, it is time.... He asked me to come over
when you were ready. You must change your dress before I come back.
[<i>Laughing.</i>] <i>Signori, miei complimenti.</i></p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>He goes out, playing with his cane.</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>sits on the corner
of the divan, and covers herself with her shawl</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Hello, <span class="smcap">He</span>! Come and lie down at my feet, and tell me something
cheerful.... You know, when you paint the laughter on your face, you are
very good looking, but now, too, you are very, very nice. Come on, <span class="smcap">He</span>,
why don't you lie down?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Consuelo! Are you going to marry the Baron?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Indifferently</i>]: It seems so. The Baron is hanging by a thread! <span class="smcap">He</span>,
there is one little sandwich left. Eat it.<a name="page_129" id="page_129"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Thank you, my queen. [<i>Eats.</i>] And do you remember my prediction?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>What prediction? How quickly you swallow! Does it taste good?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Very good. That if you marry the Baron, you....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Oh, that's what you're talking about.... But you were making fun.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Nobody can tell, my Queen. Sometimes one makes fun, and suddenly it
turns out to be true; the stars never talk in vain. If sometimes it is
difficult for a human being to open his mouth and to say a word, how
difficult it must be for a star. Think of it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: I should say. Such a mouth! [<i>Makes a tiny mouth.</i>]<a name="page_130" id="page_130"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No, my dear little girl, were I in your place, I would think it over.
And suppose suddenly you should die? Don't marry the Baron, Consuelo!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Thinking</i>]: And what is—death?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I do not know, my Queen. Nobody knows. Like love! Nobody knows. But your
little hands will become cold, and your dear little eyes will be closed.
You will be away from here. And the music will play without you, and
without you the crazy Bezano will be galloping, and Tilly and Polly will
be playing on their pipes without you: tilly-polly, tilly-polly ...
tilly-tilly, polly-polly....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Please don't, <span class="smcap">He</span> darling—— I am so sad, anyway ... tilly-tilly,
polly-polly ... [<i>Silence. HE looks at</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You were crying, my little Consuelo?<a name="page_131" id="page_131"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Yes, a little. Alfred made me nervous. But tell me, is it my fault that
I can't do anything to-day? I tried to, but I couldn't.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Why?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Ah, I don't know. There is something here. [<i>Presses her hand against
her heart.</i>] I don't know. <span class="smcap">He</span>, I must be sick. What is sickness? Does it
hurt very much?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>It is not sickness. It is the charm of the far off stars, Consuelo. It
is the voice of your fate, my little Queen.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Don't talk nonsense, please. What should the stars care about me? I am
so small. Nonsense, <span class="smcap">He</span>! Tell me rather another tale which you know:
about the blue sea and those gods, you know ... who are so beautiful.
Did they all die?<a name="page_132" id="page_132"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>They are all alive, but they hide themselves, my goddess.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>In the woods or mountains? Can one come across them? Ah, imagine <span class="smcap">He</span> ...
I come across a god, and he suddenly takes a look at me! I'd run away.
[<i>Laughs.</i>] This morning when I went without breakfast, I became so sad,
so disgusted, and I thought: if a god should come, and give me something
to eat! And as I thought it, I suddenly heard, honestly it's true, I
heard: "Consuelo, somebody's calling you." [<i>Angrily.</i>] Don't you dare
laugh!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Am I laughing?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Honestly, it's true. Ah, <span class="smcap">He</span>, but he didn't come. He only called me and
disappeared, and how can you find him? It hurt me so much, and hurts
even now. Why did you remind me of my childhood? I'd forgotten it
entirely. There was the sea ... and something ... many, many [<i>closes
her eyes, smiling.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Remember, Consuelo.<a name="page_133" id="page_133"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No. [<i>Opening her eyes</i>] I forget everything about it. [<i>Looks around
the room.</i>] <span class="smcap">He</span>, do you see what a poster they made for my benefit
performance? It's Father's idea. The Baron liked it. [<i>HE laughs.
Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Slowly</i>] Consuelo, my Queen! Don't go to the Baron to-day.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Why? [<i>After a silence.</i>] How fresh you are, <span class="smcap">He</span>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Lowering his head, slowly</i>]: I don't want it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Getting up</i>]: What? You don't want it?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Bowing his head still lower</i>]: I do not want you to marry the Baron
[<i>Imploring.</i>] I ... I shall not allow it ... I beg you!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Whom, then, would you ask me to marry? You, perhaps, you fool? [<i>With a
rancorous laugh</i>] Are<a name="page_134" id="page_134"></a> you crazy, my darling? "I shall not allow." <span class="smcap">He!</span>
<span class="smcap">He</span> will not allow me! But it is unbearable! What business is it of
yours? [<i>Walking up and down the room, looks over her shoulder at HE,
with anger.</i>] Some fool clown, whom they can kick out of here any
minute. You make me sick with your stupid tales. Or you like slaps so
much. Fool, you couldn't invent anything better than a slap!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Without lifting his head</i>]: Forgive me, my Queen.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>He is glad when they laugh at him. Some god! No, I shan't forgive. I
know you. [<i>Makes same gesture as</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span>.] You have something there!
Laughs ... so nicely ... plays, plays, and then suddenly—hop! <i>Obey
him!</i> No, darling, I am not that kind! Carry my train, that is your
business—fool!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I shall carry your train, my Queen. Forgive me. Give me back the image
of my beautiful, piteous goddess.<a name="page_135" id="page_135"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Quieting down</i>]: You're playing again?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I am.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: You see! [<i>Sits down.</i>] Foolish <span class="smcap">He</span>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I see everything, my Queen. I see how beautiful you are, and how low
under your feet your poor court fool is lying. Somewhere in the abyss
his little bells are ringing. He kneels before you and prays; forgive
and pity him, my divine one. He was too impudent; he played so
cheerfully that he went too far and lost his tiny little mind, the last
bit of understanding he had saved up. Forgive me!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>All right. I forgive you. [<i>Laughs.</i>] And now will you allow me to marry
the Baron?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Also laughing</i>]: And nevertheless I will not allow it. But what does a
queen care about the permission of her enamoured fool?<a name="page_136" id="page_136"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Get up. You are forgiven. And do you know why? You think because of your
words? You are a cunning beast, <span class="smcap">He</span>! No, because of the <i>sandwiches</i>.
That's why. You were so lovely, you panted so when you brought them.
Poor darling <span class="smcap">He</span>. From to-morrow you may be at my feet again. And as soon
as I whistle, "tuwhooo"——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I shall instantly lie down at thy feet, Consuelo. It is settled! But all
my little bells fell off to-day and——</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Bezano appears, confused.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Alfred! You came for me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>Yes. Will you work some more, Consuelo?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Certainly. As much as you want. But I thought, Alfred, you were mad at
me? I shan't dawdle any more.<a name="page_137" id="page_137"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>No. You didn't dawdle. Don't be offended, because I yelled so much. You
know when one has to teach, and——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>My goodness, do you think I don't understand? You are too nice,
unbearably nice, to like teaching such a fool as me. Do you think I
don't understand? Come on!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>Come on! Hello, <span class="smcap">He</span>! I haven't seen you yet to-day. How are you?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>How are you, Bezano? Wait, wait a minute—stay here a minute, both of
you—that way. Yes!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Bezano</span> <i>stand side by side, the jockey scowling</i>,
<span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>laughing and flushing</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Like Adam and Eve? How foolish you are! Terribly. [<i>She runs away.</i>] I
shall only change my slippers, Alfred.<a name="page_138" id="page_138"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Consuelo! And how about Father and the Baron? They will come soon, to
take you with them.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Let them come. They can wait. Not very important people. [<i>Runs away.</i>
<span class="smcap">Bezano</span> <i>hesitatingly follows her</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Stay here for a while, Bezano. Sit down.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>What more do you want? I have no time for your nonsense.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You can remain standing if you want. Bezano—you love her? [<i>Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>I shall allow nobody to interfere with my affairs. You allow yourself
too many liberties, <span class="smcap">He</span>. I don't know you. You came from the street, and
why should I trust you?<a name="page_139" id="page_139"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>But you know the Baron? Listen. It is painful for me to pronounce these
words: she loves you. Save her from the spider! Or are you blind, and
don't see the web, which is woven in every dark corner. Get out of the
vicious circle in which you are turning around, like a blind man. Take
her away, steal her, do what you want ... kill her even, and take her to
the heavens or to the devil! But don't give her to this man! He is a
defiler of love. And if you are timid, if you are afraid to lift your
hand against her—kill the Baron! Kill!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>With a smile</i>]: And who will kill the others, to come?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>She loves you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>Did she tell you that herself?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>What a petty, what a stupid, what a human pride! But <i>you</i> are a little
god! A god, youth! Why<a name="page_140" id="page_140"></a> don't you want to believe me? Or does the
street, from which I have come, bother you? But look, look yourself.
Look in my eyes, do such eyes lie? Yes, my face is ugly, I make faces
and grimaces, I am surrounded by laughter, but don't you see the god
behind all this, a god, like you? Look, look at me! [<span class="smcap">Bezano</span> <i>bursts out
laughing</i>.] What are you laughing at, youth?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>You look now as you did that evening in the ring. You remember? When you
were a great man, and they sent for you from the Academy, and
suddenly—Hup! <span class="smcap">He</span> Who Gets Slapped!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing the same way</i>]: Yes, yes, you are right, Bezano. There is a
resemblance. [<i>With a strained expression, taking a pose</i>] "It seems to
me they sent for me from the Academy!"</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Displeased</i>]: But I don't like this play. You can present your face
for slaps if you want to, but don't dare to expose mine. [<i>Turns to
go.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Bezano!<a name="page_141" id="page_141"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>[<i>Turning round</i>]: And never let me hear any more about Consuelo, and
don't dare to tell me again that I am a god! It is disgusting.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<span class="smcap">Bezano</span> <i>goes out angrily, striking his boot with his whip. HE is
alone. Wrathfully, with a tortured expression, he makes a step
towards the jockey, then stops, with soundless laughter, his head
thrown backwards. The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>find him in this
position, when they enter</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]: What a cheerful chap you are, <span class="smcap">He</span>! You laugh when you are
alone. [<i>HE laughs aloud.</i>] Stop it fool! How can you stand it?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Bowing low, with a large gesture</i>]: How do you do, Baron? My humblest
respects to you, Count. I beg your pardon, Count, but you found the
clown at work. These are, so to speak, Baron, his every-day pleasures.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Lifting his eyebrows</i>]: Tsss. But you are a clever man, <span class="smcap">He</span>. I shall
ask Papa Briquet to give you a benefit performance. Shall I, <span class="smcap">He</span>?<a name="page_142" id="page_142"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Please do me the favour, Count.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Don't overdo. Be more simple, <span class="smcap">He</span>. [<i>Laughs.</i>] But how many slaps will
you get at your benefit performance, when even on weekdays they ring you
like a gong! A funny profession, isn't it, Baron?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Very strange. But where is the Countess?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes, yes. I shall go for her at once. Dear child, she is so absorbed in
her benefit performance and her work. They call this jumping <i>work</i>,
Baron.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>I can wait a little. [<i>Sits down, with his silk hat on his head.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>But why? I shall hurry her up. I shall be back at once. And you, <span class="smcap">He</span>, be
a nice host, and entertain our dear guest. You will not be bored in his
company, Baron.<a name="page_143" id="page_143"></a></p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>He goes out. HE strides about the stage, smiling and glancing
from time to time at the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>. <i>The latter sits with his legs
spread apart and his chin on the top of his cane. The silk hat
remains on his head. He is silent.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>In what way would you like me to entertain you, Baron?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>In no way! I don't like clowns.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Nor I Barons.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Silence. HE puts on his derby hat, takes a chair with a large
gesture, and puts it down heavily, in front of the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>. <i>HE sits
astride it, imitating the pose of the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>, <i>and looks him in the
eyes. Silence.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Can you be silent very long?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Very long.<a name="page_144" id="page_144"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Taps on the floor with his foot</i>]: And can you wait very long?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Very long.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Until you get it?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Until I get it. And you?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I too.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Both look at each other, silently, their heads close together.
From the ring one hears the strains of the Tango.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Curtain</span><a name="page_145" id="page_145"></a></p>

<h2><a name="ACT_IV" id="ACT_IV"></a>ACT IV</h2>

<p><i>Music in the ring. More disorder in the room than usual. All kinds of
actors' costumes hanging on pegs and lying in the corners. On the table
a bouquet of fiery-red roses, put there by some careless hand. At the
entrance, near the arch, three bareback riders are smoking and
chattering; they are all minor actors. All part their hair the same way;
two wear small moustaches; the third one is clean-shaven with a face
like a bull-dog.</i></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Clean-shaven One</span></p>

<p>Go on, Henry! Ten thousand francs! It's too much even for the Baron.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Second</span></p>

<p>How much are roses now?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Shaven</span></p>

<p>I don't know. In winter they are certainly more expensive, but still
Henry talks nonsense. Ten thousand!<a name="page_146" id="page_146"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Second</span></p>

<p>The Baron has his own hothouse. They don't cost him anything.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Henry</span></p>

<p>[<i>Throwing away hit cigar, which has burned the tips of his fingers</i>]:
No, Grab, you're silly. There's a whole car-load full! One can smell the
roses a mile away. They're to cover the entire arena.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Shaven</span></p>

<p>Only the ring.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Henry</span></p>

<p>It's all the same. In order to cover the ring, you must have thousands
and thousands of roses. You'll see what it looks like, when they've
covered everything like a carpet. He ordered them to make it like a
carpet! Do you see, Grab?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Second</span></p>

<p>What a Baron's craze! Isn't it time yet?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Henry</span></p>

<p>No, we have time enough. I rather like it: a fiery-red tango on a
fiery-red cover of winter roses!<a name="page_147" id="page_147"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Shaven</span></p>

<p>Consuelo will be galloping on roses. And Bezano?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Second</span></p>

<p>And Bezano on thorns. [<i>Smiles.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Shaven</span></p>

<p>That youngster has no self-respect. I'd have refused.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Henry</span></p>

<p>But it is his job. He's got to do it. [<i>Laughs.</i>] Talk to him about
self-respect. He's as angry and proud as a little Satan.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Second</span></p>

<p>No, you may say what you like, it's an excellent benefit performance.
It's a joy to look at the crowd. They're so excited.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Henry</span></p>

<p>Tss! [<i>All throw away their cigars and cigarettes, like school boys who
are caught, and make way for</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span>, <i>who enters with</i> <span class="smcap">He</span>.]<a name="page_148" id="page_148"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>What are you doing here, gentlemen? Your place is at the entrance.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Henry</span></p>

<p>[<i>With a respectful smile</i>]: We are here just for a minute, Madame
Zinida. We are going. What a successful evening! And what a glory for
Papa Briquet!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Yes. Go, and please don't leave your places. [<i>They go.</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>pulls a
drawer out of the desk, and puts in some papers. She is in her lion
tamer's costume.</i>] <span class="smcap">He</span>, what were you doing near my lions? You frightened
me.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Why, Duchess, I merely wanted to hear what the beasts were saying about
the benefit performance. They are pacing in their cages, and growling.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>The music makes them nervous. Sit down, <span class="smcap">He</span>. An excellent evening, and I
am so glad that Consuelo is leaving us. Have you heard about the Baron's
roses.<a name="page_149" id="page_149"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Everybody is talking about them. The Hymeneal roses!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Here are some, too. [<i>Pushes away the bouquet.</i>] You find them
everywhere. Yes, I am glad. She is superfluous here, and disturbs our
work. It is a misfortune for a cast to have in it such a beautiful and
such an ... accessible girl.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>But it is an honest marriage, Duchess, is it not?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>I don't care what it is.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Spiders, too need an improvement in their breed! Can't you imagine,
Zinida, what charming little spiders this couple will create! They will
have the face of their mother, Consuelo, and the stomach of their
father, the Baron, and thus could be an ornament for any circus-ring.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>You are malicious to-day, <span class="smcap">He</span>. You are morose.<a name="page_150" id="page_150"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I laugh.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>You do, but without joy. Why are you without make-up?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I am in the third act. I have time. And how does Bezano feel about this
evening. Is he glad?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>I didn't talk to Bezano. You know what I think, my friend? You, too, are
superfluous here. [<i>Silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>How do you want me to take that, Zinida?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Just as I said. In fact, Consuelo sold herself for nothing. What is the
Baron worth, with his poor millions? People say that you are clever, too
clever perhaps; tell me then, for how much could one buy me?<a name="page_151" id="page_151"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Looking as if he were pricing her</i>]: Only for a crown.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>A baron's crown?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No, a royal one.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>You are far from being stupid. And you guessed that Consuelo is not
Mancini's daughter?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Startled</i>]: What! And she knows it?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Hardly. Why should she know it? Yes, she is a girl from Corsica whose
parents are unknown. He preferred to use her for business rather
than.... But according to the law, she is his daughter, Countess
Veronica Mancini.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>It is nice, to have everything done according to law, isn't it, Zinida?
But it is curious there is more<a name="page_152" id="page_152"></a> blue blood in her than in this Mancini.
One would say that it was she who found him on the street, and made him
a count and her father. Count Mancini! [<i>Laughs.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Yes, you are gloomy, <span class="smcap">He</span>. I changed my mind, you'd better stay.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Will I not be superfluous?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>When she is gone, you will not. Oh! You don't know yet, how nice it is
to be with us. What a rest for the body and mind. I understand you. I am
clever, too. Like you, I brought with me from out there my inclination
for chains, and for a long time I chained myself to whatever I could, in
order to feel firm.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Bezano?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Bezano and others; there were many, there will be many more. My red
lion, with whom I am desperately<a name="page_153" id="page_153"></a> in love, is still more terrible than
Bezano. But it is all nonsense; old habits, which we are sorry to let
go, like old servants who steal things. Leave Consuelo alone. She has
her own way.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Automobiles and diamonds?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>When did you see a beauty clad in simple cotton? If this one does not
buy her, another will. They buy off everything that is beautiful. Yes, I
know. For the first ten years she will be a sad beauty, who will attract
the eyes of the poor man on the side-walk: afterward she will begin to
paint a little around her eyes and smile, and then will take——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Her <i>chauffeur</i> or butler as a lover? You're not guessing badly, Zinida!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Am I not right? I don't want to intrude on your confidence, but to-day I
am sorry for you, <span class="smcap">He</span>. What can you do against Fate? Don't be offended,
my friend, by the words of a woman. I like you; you<a name="page_154" id="page_154"></a> are not beautiful,
nor young, nor rich, and your place is——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>On the side-walk, from which one looks at the beauties. [<i>Laughs.</i>] And
if I don't want to?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>What does it matter, your "want" or "don't want"? I am sorry for you, my
poor friend, but if you are a strong man, and I think you are, then
there is only one way for you. To forget.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You think that that's being strong? And you are saying this, you, Queen
Zinida, who want to awaken the feeling of love, even in the heart of a
lion? For one second of an illusory possession, you are ready to pay
with your life, and still you advise me to forget! Give me your strong
hand, my beautiful lady; see how much strength there is in this
pressure, and don't pity me.</p>

<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span>. <i>The latter it reserved, and
self-consciously imposing. He has a new suit, but the same cane, and the
same noiseless smile of a satyr.</i>]<a name="page_155" id="page_155"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Whispering</i>]: Will you stay?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes. I shan't go away.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>How are you, my dear? But you are dazzling, my dear! I swear you are
marvellous! Your lion would be an ass, if he did not kiss your hand, as
I do.... [<i>Kisses her hand.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>May I congratulate you, Count?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes, merci. [<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">He</span>]: How are you, my dear?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Good evening, Count!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Zinida, the Count wants to pay immediately for the breach of contract
with Consuelo ... the Countess's contract. Don't you remember, Mother,
how much it is?<a name="page_156" id="page_156"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>I'll look it up, Papa.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes, please. Consuelo will not return here any more. We leave to-morrow.</p>

<p>[<span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span> <i>search among the papers</i>. <span class="smcap">He</span> <i>takes</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span>
<i>roughly by the elbow, and draws him aside.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a low voice</i>]: How are your girls, Mancini?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>What girls? What is this, stupidity or blackmail? Look out, sir, be
careful, the policeman is not far.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You are much too severe, Mancini. I assumed, that since we are
<i>tête-á-tête</i>....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>But tell me, what kind of <i>tête-á-tête</i> is possible, between a clown and
me? [<i>Laughs.</i>] You are stupid, <span class="smcap">He</span>. You should say what you want, and
not ask questions!<a name="page_157" id="page_157"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Three thousand francs, Count.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Is that all? For Consuelo? All right. I'll tell the Baron.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>You took——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Don't, Mother, don't.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Count, you drew in advance, I have it written down, eighty francs and
twenty centimes. Will you pay this money, too?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Certainly, certainly. You will get three thousand and one hundred.
[<i>Laughing</i>] Twenty centimes! I never thought I could be so accurate.
[<i>Seriously</i>] Yes, my friends. My daughter Consuelo—the Countess—and
the Baron, expressed their desire to bid farewell to the whole cast.<a name="page_158" id="page_158"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>The Baron, too?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes, Auguste, too. They want to do it during the intermission.
Therefore, I ask you to gather here ... the more decent ones ... but
please don't make it too crowded! <span class="smcap">He</span>, will you, sir, be kind enough to
run into the buffet and tell them to bring right away a basket of
champagne, bottles and glasses—you understand?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, Count.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Wait a minute, what's the hurry—what is this, a new costume? You are
all burning like the devils in hell!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You do me too much honour, Count, I am not a devil. I am merely a poor
sinner who the devils are frying a little. [<i>He goes out, bowing like a
clown.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>A gifted chap, but too cunning.<a name="page_159" id="page_159"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>It's the Tango colour, in honour of your daughter, Count. He needs it
for a new stunt, which he doesn't want to tell in advance. Don't you
want to sit down, Count?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Auguste is waiting for me, but ... it's all right. [<i>Takes a seat.</i>]
Nevertheless I am sorry to leave you, my friend. High society,
certainly, prerogatives of the title, castles of exalted noblemen, but
where could I find such freedom, and ... such simplicity.... And
besides, these announcements, these burning posters, which take your
breath in the morning, they had something which summoned, which
encouraged.... <i>There</i>, my friends, I shall become old.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>But pleasures of a higher kind, Count. Why are you silent, Zinida?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>I'm listening.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>By the way, my dear, how do you like my suit?<a name="page_160" id="page_160"></a> You have wonderful taste.
[<i>Spreads out his lace tie and lace cuffs.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>I like it. You look like a nobleman of the courts of long ago.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes? But don't you think it is too conspicuous? Who wears lace and satin
now? This dirty democracy will soon make us dress ourselves in sack
cloth. [<i>With a sigh</i>] Auguste told me that this jabot was out of place.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>The Baron is too severe.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Yes, but it seems to me he is right. I am a little infected with your
fancy. [<span class="smcap">He</span> <i>returns. Two waiters follow him, carrying a basket of
champagne and glasses. They prepare everything on the table.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Ah! <i>merci</i>, <span class="smcap">He</span>. But, please, none of this bourgeoise exploding of
corks; be slower and more modest. Send the bill to Baron Regnard. Then,
we will be here, Briquet. I must go.<a name="page_161" id="page_161"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Looks at her watch</i>]: Yes, the act is going to end soon.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Heavens! [<i>Disappears in a hurry.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>The devil take him!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Pointing to the waiter</i>]: Not so loud, Louis!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>No! The devil take him! And why couldn't you help me, Mother? You left
me alone to talk to him. High Society! High pleasures! Swindler! [<span class="smcap">He</span>
<i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>laugh. The waiters smile.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>To the waiters</i>]: What are you laughing about? You can go. We will
help ourselves. Whiskey and soda, Jean! [<i>In a low and angry voice</i>]
Champagne! [<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Jackson</span>, <i>in his clown's costume.</i>]<a name="page_162" id="page_162"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>A whiskey and soda for me, too! At least I hear some laughter here.
Those idiots have simply forgotten how to laugh. My sun was rising and
setting and crawling all over the ring—— and not a smile! Look at my
bottom, shines like a mirror! [<i>Turns around quickly.</i>] Beg your pardon,
Zinida. And you don't look badly to-night, <span class="smcap">He</span>. Look out for your cheeks.
I hate beauties.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>A benefit performance crowd!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>[<i>Looking in a hand mirror, correcting his make-up</i>]: In the orchestra
there are some Barons and Egyptian mummies. I got a belly-ache from
fright. I am an honest clown. I can't stand it when they look at me as
if I had stolen a handkerchief. <span class="smcap">He</span>, please give them a good many slaps
to-night.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Be quiet, Jim. I shall avenge you. [<i><span class="smcap">He</span> goes out.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>And how is Bezano?<a name="page_163" id="page_163"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>[<i>Grumbling</i>]: Bezano! A crazy success. But he is crazy, he will break
his neck to-morrow. Why does he run such a risk? Or perhaps he has
wings, like a god? Devil take it. It's disgusting to look at him. It's
not work any more.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>You are right, Jim! It is not work any more. To your health, old
comrade, Jackson.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>To yours, Louis.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>It is not work any more, since these Barons came here! Do you hear? They
are laughing. But I am indignant, I am indignant, Jim! What do they want
here, these Barons? Let them steal hens in other hen roosts, and leave
us in peace. Ah! Had I been Secretary of the Interior, I should have
made an iron fence between us and those people.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>I am very sorry myself for our dear little Consuelo. I don't know why,
but it seems to me that we<a name="page_164" id="page_164"></a> all look to-day more like swindlers than
honest artists. Don't you think so, Zinida?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Everybody does what he wants. It's Consuelo's business and her father's.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>No, Mother, that's not true! Not everybody does what he wants, but it
turns out this way ... devil knows why.</p>

<p><i>[Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Angelica</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Thomas</span>, <i>an athlete.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Angelica</span></p>

<p>Is this where we're going to have champagne?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>And you're glad already?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Thomas</span></p>

<p>There it is! Oh, oh, what a lot!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Angelica</span></p>

<p>The Count told me to come here. I met him.<a name="page_165" id="page_165"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Angrily</i>]: All right, if he said so, but there is no reason to enjoy
it. Look out, Angelica, you will have a bad end. I see you through and
through. How does she work, Thomas?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Thomas</span></p>

<p>Very well.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Angelica</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a low voice</i>]: How angry Papa Briquet is to-night.</p>

<p>[Enter <span class="smcap">He</span>, <span class="smcap">Tilly</span>, <span class="smcap">Polly</span>, <i>and other actors, all in their costumes.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>Do you really want champagne?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>I don't want it at all. Do you, Tilly?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>And I don't want it. <span class="smcap">He</span>, did you see how the Count walks? [<i>Walks,
imitating</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span>. <i>Laughter.</i>]<a name="page_166" id="page_166"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>Let me be the Baron. Take my arm. Look out, ass, you stepped on my
beloved family tree!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Angelica</span></p>

<p>It'll soon be finished. Consuelo is galloping now. It is her waltz. What
a success she is having!</p>

<p>[<i>All listen to the waltz.</i> <span class="smcap">Tilly</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Polly</span> <i>are singing it softly.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Angelica</span></p>

<p>She is so beautiful! Are those her flowers?</p>

<p>[<i>They listen. Suddenly, a crash as if a broken wall were tumbling down:
applause, shouting, screaming; much motion on the stage. The actors are
pouring champagne. New ones come in, talking and laughing. When they
notice the director and the champagne, they become quiet and modest.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Voices</span></p>

<p>They're coming! What a success! I should say, since all the orchestra
seats.... And what will it be when they see the Tango? Don't be envious,
Alphonse.<a name="page_167" id="page_167"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Silence! Not so much noise, please! Zinida, look here, don't be so
quiet! High society!</p>

<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>, <i>on the arm of the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>who is stiff and erect.
She is happy.</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span>, <i>serious and happy. Behind them, riders, actors,
actresses. The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>has in his button-hole a fiery-red rose. All
applaud and cry: "Bravo, bravo!"</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Friends ... my dears ... Father, I can't ... [<i>Throws herself into</i>
<span class="smcap">Mancini's</span> <i>arms, and hides her face on his shoulders.</i> <span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>looks
with a smile over her head at the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron. Baron</span> <i>smiles slightly, but
remains earnest and motionless. A new burst of applause.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Enough, children! Enough!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Calm yourself, calm yourself, my child. How they all love you! [<i>Taking
a step forward</i>] Ladies and gentlemen, Baron Regnard did me the honour
yesterday, to ask for the hand of my daughter, the<a name="page_168" id="page_168"></a> Countess Veronica,
whom you knew under the name of Consuelo. Please take your glasses.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No, I am still Consuelo, to-night, and I shall always be Consuelo!
Zinida, dear! [<i>Falls on the neck of</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span>. <i>Fresh applause.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Stop it! Silence! Take your glasses. What are you standing here for? If
you came, then take the glasses.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>[<i>Trembling</i>]: They are frightened. You take yours first, Papa, and we
will follow.</p>

<p>[<i>They take the glasses.</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>is near the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>, <i>holding the
sleeve of his dress coat with her left hand. In her right hand, she has
a glass of champagne, which spills over.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>You are spilling your wine, Consuelo.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Ah! It is nothing! I am frightened, too. Are you, Father?<a name="page_169" id="page_169"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Silly child. [<i>An awkward silence.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>With a step forward</i>]: Countess! As the director of the circus, who
was happy enough ... to witness ... many times ... your successes....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I do not <i>like</i> this, Papa Briquet! I am Consuelo. What do you want to
do with me? I shall cry. I don't want this "Countess." Give me a kiss,
Briquet!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Ah, Consuelo! Books have killed you.</p>

<p>[<i>Kisses her with tears. Laughter, applause. The clowns cluck like hens,
bark, and express their emotions in many other ways. The motley crowd of
clowns, which is ready for the pantomime, becomes more and more lively.
The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>is motionless, there is a wide space around him; the people
touch glasses with him in a hurry, and go off to one side. With</i>
<span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>they clink willingly and cheerfully. She kisses the women.</i>]<a name="page_170" id="page_170"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Silence! Consuelo, from to-day on, I extinguish my sun. Let the dark
night come after you leave us. You were a nice comrade and worker, we
all loved you and will love the traces of your little feet on the sand.
Nothing remains to us!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>You are so good, so good, Jim. So good that there is no one better. And
your sun is better than all the other suns. I laughed so much at it.
Alfred, dear, why don't you come? I was looking for you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>My congratulations, Countess.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Alfred, I am Consuelo!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Bezano</span></p>

<p>When you are on horseback; but here—I congratulate you, Countess. [<i>He
passes, only slightly touching</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo's</span> <i>glass</i>. <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>still
holds it</i>. <span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>looks at the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>with a smile</i>. <i>The latter is
motionless.</i>]<a name="page_171" id="page_171"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Nonsense, Bezano. You are making Consuelo unhappy. She is a good
comrade.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No, it's all right.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Angelica</span></p>

<p>You'll dance the Tango with her to-night, so how is she a countess?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>May I clink glasses with you, Consuelo? You know Polly has died of grief
already, and I am going to die. I have such a weak stomach.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Laughter</i>; <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>shows slight displeasure</i>. <i>General motion.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Enough, enough! The intermission is over.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Already? It's so nice here.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>I shall prolong it. They can wait. Tell them, Thomas.<a name="page_172" id="page_172"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Auguste, the musicians of the orchestra, too, ask permission to
congratulate you and Consuelo. Do you ...?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Certainly, certainly.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Enter crowd of musicians. The conductor, an old Italian, lifts
his glass solemnly and without looking at the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Conductor</span></p>

<p>Consuelo! They call you Countess here, but for me you were and are
<i>Consuelo</i>.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Certainly!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">The Conductor</span></p>

<p>Consuelo! My violins and bassoons, my trumpets and drums, all are
drinking your health. Be happy, dear child, as you were happy here. And
we shall conserve for ever in our hearts the fair memory of our
light-winged fairy, who guided our bows so long. I have finished! Give
my love to our beautiful Italy, Consuelo.<a name="page_173" id="page_173"></a></p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Applause, compliments. The musicians one after another clink
glasses and go out into the corridor.</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>is almost
crying</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Don't be so sensitive, my child, it is indecent. Had I known that you
would respond this way to this comedy—Auguste, look how touched this
little heart is!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Calm yourself, Consuelo.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>It is all right. Ah, Father, listen!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The musicians are playing the Tango in the corridor.
Exclamations.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>You see. It is for you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>They are so nice. My Tango! I want to dance. Who is going to dance with
me? [<i>Looks around, seeking</i> <span class="smcap">Bezano</span>, <i>who turns away sadly</i>.] Who,
then?<a name="page_174" id="page_174"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Voices</span></p>

<p>Baron! Let the Baron dance! Baron!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>All right. [<i>Takes</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo's</span> <i>arm, and stands in the centre of a
circle which is formed</i>.] I do not know how to dance the Tango, but I
shall hold tight. Dance, Consuelo. [<i>He stands with legs spread, heavily
and awkwardly, like an iron-moulded man, holding</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo's</span> <i>arm firmly
and seriously</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Applauding</i>]: Bravo! Bravo! [<span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>makes a few restless movements,
and pulls her arm away</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No, I can't this way. How stupid! Let me go! [<i>She goes to</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>and
embraces her, as if hiding herself</i>. <i>The music still plays. The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>
<i>goes off quietly to the side</i>. <i>There is an unfriendly silence among
the cast. They shrug their shoulders.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Alone</i>]: Bravo! Bravo! It is charming, it is exquisite!<a name="page_175" id="page_175"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Not entirely, Count.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<span class="smcap">Tilly</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Polly</span> <i>imitate the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>without
moving from their places</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Tilly</span></p>

<p>[<i>Shrieking</i>]: Let me go!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>No, I'll not. Dance!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The music stops abruptly. General, too loud laughter; the clowns
bark and roar. Papa</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span> <i>gesticulates, in order to
re-establish silence</i>. <i>The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>is apparently as indifferent as
before</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Really these vagabonds are becoming too impertinent. [<i>Shrugging his
shoulders</i>] It smells of the stable. You cannot help it, Auguste!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Don't be upset, Count.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Holding his glass, approaches the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>]: Baron. Will you permit me
to make a toast?<a name="page_176" id="page_176"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Make it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>To your dance! [<i>Slight laughter in the crowd.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>I don't dance!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Then another one, Baron. Let us drink to those who know how to wait
longer, until they get it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>I do not accept any toasts which I do not understand. Say it more
simply.</p>

<p>[<i>Voice of a woman: "Bravo, HE!</i>" <i>Slight laughter.</i></p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>says something hastily to</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span>; <i>the latter spreads
his arms in gesture of helplessness</i>. <span class="smcap">Jackson</span> <i>takes HE by the
arm</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Beat it, <span class="smcap">He</span>! The Baron doesn't like jokes.<a name="page_177" id="page_177"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>But I want to drink with the Baron. What can be simpler? Simpler? Baron,
let us drink to the very small distance which will always remain 'twixt
the cup and the lip! [<i>Spills his wine, and laughs.</i>]</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>turns his back on him, indifferently</i>. <i>The music
plays in the ring. The bell rings.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Relieved</i>]: There! To the ring, ladies and gentlemen, to the ring, to
the ring!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The actresses run out. The crowd becomes smaller; laughter and
voices.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Much excited, whispers to the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>]: "Auguste, Auguste——"</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span>]: Thank heaven they're beginning. Ah, Mother, I asked you
... but you want a scandal by all means, and you always——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Let me alone, Louis.</p>

<p>[<i>HE approaches Consuelo, who is alone.</i>]<a name="page_178" id="page_178"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span>, deary, how are you? I thought you didn't want even to come near me.
[<i>In a low voice</i>] Did you notice Bezano?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I was waiting for my turn, Queen. It was so difficult to get through the
crowd to approach you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Through the crowd? [<i>With a sad smile</i>] I am quite alone. What do you
want, Father?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>Child! Auguste....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Pulling away her hand</i>]: Let me alone! I'll soon be—— Come
here, <span class="smcap">He</span>. What did you say to him? They all laughed. I couldn't
understand. What?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I joked, Consuelo.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Please don't, <span class="smcap">He</span>, don't make him angry; he is so<a name="page_179" id="page_179"></a> terrible. Did you see
how he pressed my arm? I wanted to scream. [<i>With tears in her eyes</i>] He
hurt me!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>It's not too late yet. Refuse him.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>It is too late, <span class="smcap">He</span>. Don't talk about it.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Do you want it? I will take you away from here.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Where to? [<i>Laughs.</i>] Ah, my dear little silly boy, where could you take
me to. All right, be quiet. How pale you are! You too, love me? Don't
<span class="smcap">He</span>, please don't! Why do they all love me?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You are so beautiful!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>No, no. It's not true. They must not love me. I was still a little
<a name="page_180" id="page_180"></a>cheerful, but when they began to speak ... so nicely ... and about
Italy ... and to bid farewell, as if I were dying, I thought I should
begin to cry. Don't talk, don't talk, but drink to ... my happiness.
[<i>With a sad smile</i>] To my happiness, <span class="smcap">He</span>. What are you doing?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I am throwing away the glass from which you drank with the others. I
shall give you another one. Wait a minute. [<i>Goes to pour champagne.</i>
<span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>walks about thoughtfully</i>. <i>Almost all are gone. Only the
principal figures are left.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Coming to her</i>]: But it is really becoming indecent, Veronica. Auguste
is so nice, he is waiting for you, and you talk here with this clown.
Some stupid secrets. They're looking at you—it is becoming noticeable.
It is high time, Veronica, to get rid of these habits.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Loudly</i>]: Let me alone, Father! I want to do so, and will do so. They
are all my friends. Do you hear? Let me alone!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Don't, Count. Please, Consuelo, talk to whomever you please and as much
as you want. Would you<a name="page_181" id="page_181"></a> like a cigar, Count? Dear Briquet, please order
them to prolong the intermission a little more.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>With pleasure, Baron. The orchestra crowd can be a little angry. [<i>Goes,
and returns shortly.</i> <i>HE gives a glass to</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Here is your glass. To your happiness, to your freedom, Consuelo!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>And where is yours? We must touch our glasses.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>You leave half.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Must I drink so much? <span class="smcap">He</span>, deary, I shall become drunk. I still have to
ride.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No, you will not be drunk. Dear little girl, did you forget that I am
your magician? Be quiet and<a name="page_182" id="page_182"></a> drink. I charmed the wine. My witchery is
in it. Drink, goddess.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Lingeringly</i>]: What kind eyes you have. But why are you so pale?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Because I love you. Look at my kind eyes and drink; give yourself up to
my charms, goddess! You shall fall asleep, and wake again, as before. Do
you remember? And you shall see your country, your sky....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Bringing the glass to her lips</i>]: I shall see all this; is that true?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Growing paler</i>]: Yes! Awake, goddess, and remember the time when,
covered with snow-white sea-foam, thou didst emerge from the sky blue
waters. Remember heaven, and the low eastern wind, and the whisper of
the foam at thy marble feet....</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Drinking</i>]: There! Look! Just a half! Take<a name="page_183" id="page_183"></a> it. But what is the matter
with you? Are you laughing or crying?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>I am laughing and crying.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Pushing HE away, slightly</i>]: Enough, Countess, my patience is
exhausted. If Auguste is good enough to allow it, then I, your
Father—Your arm, Countess! Will you step aside, sir?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I am tired.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>You are not too tired to chatter and drink wine with a clown, and when
your duty calls you—Briquet! Tell them to ring the bell. It is time.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I am tired, Father.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Count, it is cruel. Don't you see how pale she has become?<a name="page_184" id="page_184"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>What is the matter with you, dear little Consuelo?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Nothing.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>She simply needs a rest, Baron. She hasn't sat down yet ... and so much
excitement.... Sit down here, dear child. Cover yourself and rest a
little. Men are so cruel!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I still have to work. [<i>Closing her eyes.</i>] And the roses, are they
ready?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Ready, dear, ready. You will have such an extraordinary carpet. You will
gallop as if on air. Rest.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Polly</span></p>

<p>Do you want some moosic? We will play you a song; do you want it?<a name="page_185" id="page_185"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Smiling, eyes closed</i>]: Yes, I do.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The clowns play a soft and naïve song: tilly-polly, tilly-polly.
General silence.</i> <i>HE sits in the corner with his face turned
away.</i> <span class="smcap">Jackson</span> <i>watches him out of the corner of his eye, and
drinks wine, lazily</i>. <i>The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>, <i>in his usual pose, wide and
heavily spread legs, looks at the pale face of</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>, <i>with his
bulging motionless eyes</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>With a sudden cry</i>]: Ah! Pain!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>What is it, Consuelo?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>My child! Are you sick! Calm yourself.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>[<i>Growing pale</i>]: Wait a moment.... She was too much excited....
Consuelo!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>Gets up, looking before her with wide-open eyes, as if she were
listening to something within herself</i>]:<a name="page_186" id="page_186"></a> Ah! I feel pain. Here at the
heart. Father, what is it? I am afraid. What is it? My feet too ... I
can't stand.... [<i>Falls on divan, her eyes wide open.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Running about</i>]: Bring a doctor! Heavens, it is terrible! Auguste,
Baron.... It never happened to her. It is nerves, nerves.... Calm
yourself, calm, child——</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Bring a doctor! [<i>Somebody runs for a doctor.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a voice full of fear</i>]: <span class="smcap">He</span>, what is the matter with you?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>It is death, Consuelo, my little Queen. I killed you. You are dying.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>He cries, loudly and bitterly.</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span> <i>with a scream, closes
her eyes, and becomes silent and quiet</i>. <i>All are in terrible
agitation. The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>is motionless, and sees only</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>.]</p></div>

<p><a name="page_187" id="page_187"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Furious</i>]: You are lying, rascal! Damned clown! What did you give her?
You poisoned her! Murderer! Bring a doctor!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>A doctor will not help. You are dying, my little Queen. Consuelo!
Consuelo!</p>

<p>[<span class="smcap">Bezano</span> <i>rushes in, cries</i>: "<span class="smcap">Briquet!</span>" <i>becomes silent and looks with
horror at</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>. <i>Somebody else comes in.</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span> <i>is making
gestures for someone to close the door</i>.]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>[<i>In a dull and distant voice</i>]: You are joking, <span class="smcap">He</span>? Don't frighten me.
I am so frightened. Is that death? I don't want it. Ah, <span class="smcap">He</span>, my darling
<span class="smcap">He</span>, tell me that you are joking, I am afraid, my dear, golden <span class="smcap">He</span>!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>HE pushes away the</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span>, <i>with a commanding gesture, and stands
in his place near</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>. <i>The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>stands as before, seeing
only</i> <span class="smcap">Consuelo</span>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, I am joking. Don't you hear how I laugh, Consuelo? They all laugh
at you here, my silly child.<a name="page_188" id="page_188"></a> Don't laugh, Jim. She is tired, and wants
to sleep. How can you laugh, Jim! Sleep my dear, sleep my heart, sleep
my love.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Yes, I have no more pain. Why did you joke that way, and frighten me?
Now I laugh at myself. You told me, didn't you, that I ... should ...
live ... eternally?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>Yes, Consuelo! You shall live eternally. Sleep. Be calm. [<i>Lifts up his
arms, as if straining with all his forces to lift her soul higher.</i>] How
easy it is now! How much light, how many lights are burning about
you.... The light is blinding you.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>Yes, light.... Is that the ring?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>No, it is the sea and the sun ... what a sun! Don't you feel that you
are the foam, white sea-foam, and you are flying to the sun? You feel
light, you have no body, you are flying higher, my love!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Consuelo</span></p>

<p>I am flying. I am the sea-foam, and this is the sun, it shines ... so
strong.... I feel well.<a name="page_189" id="page_189"></a></p>

<p>[<i>She dies. Silence. HE stays a moment with lifted arms, then takes a
long look, lets his arms fall, and shakingly goes off to one side. He
stands still for a moment, then sits down, drops hit head on his hands,
and struggles lonesomely with the torpidity of coming death.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Slowly</i>]: She has fallen asleep, Mother?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Dropping the dead hand</i>]: I am afraid not.... Step aside, Louis.
Baron, it is better for you to step aside. Baron! Do you hear me?
[<i>Weeps.</i>] She is dead, Louis.</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>The clowns and</i> <span class="smcap">Briquet</span> <i>are crying</i>. <span class="smcap">Mancini</span> <i>is overwhelmed</i>.
<i>The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>and HE are motionless, each in his place</i>.]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>[<i>Drawing out a large prismatic clown's handkerchief to wipe away his
tears</i>]: Faded, like a flower. Sleep, little Consuelo! The only thing
that remains of you is the trace of your little feet on the sand.
[<i>Cries.</i>] Ah, what did you do, what did you do, <span class="smcap">He</span>!... It would have
been better if you had never come to us. [<i>There it music in the
ring.</i>]<a name="page_190" id="page_190"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Gesticulating</i>]: The music! Stop the music! They are crazy there. What
a misfortune!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>Someone runs off.</i> <span class="smcap">Zinida</span> <i>approaches the crying</i> <span class="smcap">Bezano</span> <i>and
strokes his bowed, pomaded head</i>. <i>When he notices her, he catches
her hand and presses it to his eyes.</i> <i>The</i> <span class="smcap">Baron</span> <i>takes the rose
from his button-hole, tears off the petals, and drops it, grinding
it with his foot</i>. <i>A few pale faces peer through the door, the
same masquerade crowd.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>[<i>Over the head of</i> <span class="smcap">Bezano</span>]: Louis, we must call the police.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>[<i>Awakening from his stupor, screams</i>]: The police! Call the police!
It's a murder! I am Count Mancini, I am Count Mancini! They will cut off
your head, murderer, damned clown, thief! I myself will kill you,
rascal! Ah, you! [<i>HE lifts his heavy head with difficulty.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>They will cut off my head? And what more.... Your Excellency?<a name="page_191" id="page_191"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Baron</span></p>

<p>Sir! Listen, sir! I am going for the police. Stop it, sir. [<i>He suddenly
takes a step forward, and looking HE in the eyes, speaks in a hoarse
voice, with a cough, holding one hand at his throat.</i>] I am the witness.
I saw. I am a witness. I saw how he put poison ... I——</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>He leaves the room, suddenly, with the same straight, heavy
steps. All move away from him, frightened. HE drops his head again.
From time to time a tremor shakes his body.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>[<i>Clasping his hands</i>]: Then it is all true? Poisoned! What a vile man
you are, <span class="smcap">He</span>. Is this the way to play? Now wait for the last slap of the
executioner! [<i>Makes the gesture around his neck, of the guillotine.
Tilly and Polly repeat the gesture.</i>]</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Zinida</span></p>

<p>Leave his soul alone, Jim. He was a man, and he loved. Happy Consuelo!</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>A shot is heard in the corridor.</i> <span class="smcap">Thomas</span>, <i>frightened, runs in
and points to his head</i>.]</p></div>

<p><a name="page_192" id="page_192"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Thomas</span></p>

<p>Baron ... Baron ... his head.... He shot himself?...</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>[<i>Throwing his arms up</i>]: God! What is it? The Baron? What a calamity
for our circus.</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Mancini</span></p>

<p>The Baron? The Baron? No. What are you standing here for? Ah!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Briquet</span></p>

<p>Calm down, Count. Who would have believed it? Such a respectable ...
gentleman!</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Lifting his head with difficulty; he sees only dimly with his dulled
eyes</i>]: What more? What happened?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Thomas</span></p>

<p>The Baron shot himself. Honestly. Straight here! He's lying out yonder.<a name="page_193" id="page_193"></a></p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Thinking it over</i>]: Baron? [<i>Laughs.</i>] Then the Baron burst?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Jackson</span></p>

<p>Stop it! It's shameless. A man died and you.... What's the matter with
you, <span class="smcap">He</span>?</p>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">He</span></p>

<p>[<i>Stands up, lifted to his feet by the last gleam of consciousness and
life, speaks strongly and indignantly</i>]: You loved her so much, Baron?
So much? My Consuelo? And you want to be ahead of me even <i>there</i>? No! I
am coming. We shall prove then whose she is to be for ever....</p>

<div class="blockquot"><p class="hang">[<i>He catches at his throat, falls on his back. People run to him.
General agitation.</i>]</p></div>

<p class="char"><span class="smcap">Curtain</span></p>
